COGNATE PAIRS

ROMANIAN             ITALIAN              

ab                   ab                   
abacă                abaco                
abandon              abbandono            
abandona             abbandonare          
abces                ascesso              
abdica               abdicare             
abdomen              addome               
abducție             abduzione            
abducțiune           abduzione            
aberație             aberrazione          
abhora               aborrire             
abitație             abitazione           
abject               abietto              
abjura               abiurare             
abjurare             abiura               
ablațiune            ablazione            
abnegațiune          abnegazione          
aboli                abolire              
aboliționism         abolizionismo        
abolla               abolla               
abonament            abbonamento          
abortiv              abortivo             
abraziune            abrasione            
abreviațiune         abbreviazione        
abscisă              ascissa              
absent               assente              
absență              assenza              
absenteism           assenteismo          
absidă               abside               
absint               assenzio             
absorbi              assorbire            
abstenționism        astensionismo        
abstinent            astinente            
abstinență           astinenza            
abstracție           astrazione           
abstracțiune         astrazione           
absurd               assurdo              
abunda               abbondare            
abundență            abbondanza           
abuz                 abuso                
abuziv               abusivo              
acari                acari                
accelerațiune        accelerazione        
accepție             accezione            
acces                accesso              
accesibil            accessibile          
accesibilitate       accessibilità        
accesoriu            accessorio           
aceton               acetone              
acetonă              acetone              
achiziție            acquisizione         
achizițiune          acquisizione         
acid                 acido                
aciditate            acidità              
acido                acido                
aclama               acclamare            
aclimatiza           acclimatare          
acmee                acme                 
acrilic              acrilico             
acropolă             acropoli             
acrostih             acrostico            
actant               attante              
activ                attivo               
activitate           attività             
actor                attore               
actual               attuale              
actuar               attuario             
acuzativ             accusativo           
acvatic              acquatico            
acvilin              aquilino             
adapta               adattare             
adelfo               adelfo               
adera                aderire              
adeziune             adesione             
adiabatic            adiabatico           
adjectiv             aggettivo            
administrațiune      amministrazione      
administrator        amministratore       
admira               ammirare             
admirație            ammirazione          
admirațiune          ammirazione          
admite               ammettere            
admisiune            ammissione           
adnotație            annotazione          
adnotațiune          annotazione          
adopta               adottare             
adoptabil            adottabile           
adopție              adozione             
adoptiv              adottivo             
aducțiune            adduzione            
aductor              adduttore            
adult                adulto               
adulter              adulterio            
advent               avvento              
adverb               avverbio             
adverbial            avverbiale           
advers               avverso              
adversar             avversario           
adversară            avversario           
adversitate          avversità            
aediculă             edicola              
aerație              aerazione            
aeroplan             aeroplano            
afabil               affabile             
afabilitate          affabilità           
afectație            affettazione         
afecțiune            affetto              
afectiv              affettivo            
afectuos             affettuoso           
afereză              aferesi              
afilie               affiliazione         
afiliere             affiliazione         
afinitate            affinità             
afluent              affluente            
afluență             affluenza            
aflux                afflusso             
afonie               afonia               
aforism              aforisma             
afrodiziac           afrodisiaco          
agil                 agile                
agitație             agitazione           
agitațiune           agitazione           
aglutina             agglutinare          
aglutinat            agglutinare          
agonie               agonia               
agorafobie           agorafobia           
agregație            aggregazione         
agregațiune          aggregazione         
agricol              agricola             
agricola             agricola             
agricultură          agricoltura          
agro                 agro                 
agronom              agronomo             
agronomă             agronomia            
alanină              alanina              
albedo               albedo               
album                album                
albumen              albume               
albumină             albumina             
alegorie             allegoria            
alfa                 alfa                 
algă                 alga                 
alianță              alleanza             
alibi                alibi                
aliena               alienare             
aligator             alligatore           
alopecie             alopecia             
alpaca               alpaca               
altera               alterare             
altul                altro                
altruism             altruismo            
aluminiu             alluminio            
alunit               alunite              
aluvionar            alluvionale          
aluvionare           alluvionale          
alveolă              alveolo              
amarant              amaranto             
ambala               imballare            
ambalare             imballaggio          
ambiant              ambiente             
ambidextru           ambidestro           
ambiguu              ambiguo              
ambițios             ambizioso            
ambițiune            ambizione            
ambrozie             ambrosia             
ambulanță            ambulanza            
amfiteatru           anfiteatro           
amforă               anfora               
amibă                ameba                
amnezie              amnesia              
amnio                amnio                
amoniac              ammoniaca            
amorf                amorfo               
amperaj              amperaggio           
amplu                ampio                
amputa               amputare             
amulet               amuleto              
amuletă              amuleto              
ana                  ana                  
anabolism            anabolismo           
anaforă              anafora              
anale                annali               
analfabet            analfabeta           
analiză              analisi              
analog               analogo              
analogic             analogico            
analogie             analogia             
anamorfoză           anamorfosi           
ananas               ananas               
anapest              anapesto             
anatocism            anatocismo           
anatomie             anatomia             
anchiloză            anchilosi            
anecdotă             aneddoto             
anestezie            anestesia            
anexiune             annessione           
anghilă              anguilla             
anghină              angina               
angină               angina               
angiom               angioma              
anglican             anglicano            
angrenaj             ingranaggio          
angular              angolare             
anima                animare              
animalitate          animalità            
animație             animazione           
animațiune           animazione           
animozitate          animosità            
aniversar            anniversario         
aniversară           anniversario         
aniversare           anniversario         
annona               annona               
anorexie             anoressia            
anormal              anormale             
ante                 ante                 
antemeridian         antimeridiano        
anteră               antera               
anteză               antesi               
anticar              antiquario           
anticipa             anticipare           
anticipație          anticipazione        
anticipațiune        anticipazione        
antidot              antidoto             
antinomie            antinomia            
antipod              antipode             
antirabic            rabbia               
antiteză             antitesi             
antre                entre                
anular               anulare              
anus                 ano                  
aorist               aoristo              
aortă                aorta                
apărea               apparire             
apare                apparire             
apeduct              acquedotto           
apeiron              apeiron              
apendicular          appendicolare        
apetit               appetito             
apicol               ape                  
aplauda              applaudire           
aplicațiune          applicazione         
apocopă              apocope              
apocrif              apocrifo             
apodictic            apodittico           
apofiză              apofisi              
apoplectic           apoplettico          
apoplexie            apoplessia           
aporie               aporia               
apostat              apostata             
apostazie            apostasia            
apostrof             apostrofo            
apostrofă            apostrofo            
apotemă              apotema              
apoteoză             apoteosi             
apoziție             apposizione          
apozițiune           apposizione          
aprecia              apprezzare           
apreciere            apprezzamento        
aprehensiune         apprensione          
aprofunda            approfondire         
ara                  arare                
arătură              aratura              
arbitra              arbitrare            
arbitrar             arbitrario           
arbitru              arbitro              
arcanul              arcano               
arctic               artico               
arctica              artico               
ardoare              ardore               
arenă                arena                
areolă               areola               
areometru            areometro            
aresta               arrestare            
arestare             arrestare            
argento              argento              
argilos              argilloso            
argument             argomento            
argumenta            argomentare          
argumentație         argomentazione       
arhitect             architetto           
arhitectă            architetto           
arhitectură          architettura         
arhivă               archivio             
arid                 arido                
ariditate            aridità              
aristă               arista               
aritmetică           aritmetica           
armătură             armatura             
armiger              armigero             
armură               armatura             
arnică               arnica               
arogant              arrogante            
aroganță             arroganza            
arsenic              arsenico             
arteră               arteria              
artezian             artesiano            
articula             articolare           
articular            articolare           
articulat            articolare           
artrită              artrite              
artritic             artritico            
asambla              assemblare           
asesor               assessore            
asfalt               asfalto              
asfixie              asfissia             
asimetrie            asimmetria           
asimila              assimilare           
asimptotă            asintoto             
asină                asino                
asocia               associare            
aspartic             aspartico            
aspect               aspetto              
asperitate           asperità             
aspic                aspic                
aspirină             aspirina             
assize               assise               
astatin              astato               
astatiniu            astato               
astenia              astenia              
astenie              astenia              
asterisc             asterisco            
astmă                asma                 
astmatic             asmatico             
astragal             astragalo            
astral               astrale              
astrologă            astrologia           
astrologie           astrologia           
astronomă            astronomia           
astronomie           astronomia           
asuda                sudare               
atavism              atavismo             
ataxie               atassia              
atesta               attestare            
atestare             attestazione         
atletică             atletica             
atopie               atopia               
atotputernic         onnipotente          
atotputernicie       onnipotenza          
atotputernicul       onnipotente          
atracțiune           attrazione           
atractiv             attrattivo           
atribut              attributo            
atrio                atrio                
atriu                atrio                
atrofie              atrofia              
audibil              udibile              
augmenta             aumentare            
august               agosto               
aulos                aulos                
aură                 aura                 
aurifer              aurifero             
auriga               auriga               
austral              australe             
autodidact           autodidatta          
automatism           automatismo          
automatiza           automatizzare        
automobilism         automobilismo        
ave                  ave                  
avenă                avena                
aviator              aviatore             
avulsiune            avulsione            
axă                  asse                 
axilă                ascella              
axiomă               assioma              
axis                 asse                 
azot                 azoto                
babuin               babbuino             
bacalaureat          baccalaureato        
bacalaureată         baccalaureato        
bacanală             baccanale            
bacara               baccara              
bacil                bacillo              
bagaj                bagaglio             
baionetă             baionetta            
bairam               bairam               
balafon              balafon              
balanită             balanite             
balnear              balneare             
balneoterapie        balneoterapia        
balotaj              ballottaggio         
banal                banale               
bar                  bar                  
barbar               barbaro              
barbarie             barbarie             
baricadare           barricata            
baricada             barricata            
barieră              barriera             
baronet              baronetto            
baschet              basket               
bazar                bazar                
beatifica            beatificare          
bebe                 bebe                 
beligerant           belligerante         
beneficiar           beneficiario         
beneficiară          beneficiario         
bertă                berta                
bicicletă            bicicletta           
biciclete            bicicletta           
bienal               biennale             
biftec               bistecca             
bigam                bigamo               
bigot                bigotto              
bigudiu              bigodino             
bikini               bikini               
bilă                 bile                 
bildungsroman        bildungsroman        
bilingv              bilingue             
bilios               bilioso              
binar                binario              
binefăcător          benefattore          
bipartiție           bipartizione         
biped                bipede               
biplan               biplano              
birefringent         birifrangente        
birocrat             burocrate            
birocratic           burocratico          
birocrație           burocrazia           
bistrou              bistro               
bitum                bitume               
bitumen              bitume               
bituminos            bituminoso           
biuretă              buretta              
bizon                bisonte              
blază                blase                
blazat               blase                
blazon               blasone              
bloca                bloccare             
blocare              bloccare             
boa                  boa                  
bobină               bobina               
bobina               bobina               
bobslei              bob                  
boicot               boicottare           
boicota              boicottare           
boldo                boldo                
bolero               bolero               
bomb                 bomba                
bombonieră           bomboniera           
borax                borace               
boreal               boreale              
braconaj             bracconaggio         
braconier            bracconiere          
brahial              brachiale            
branhie              branchia             
bregmă               bregma               
brevet               brevetto             
brom                 bromo                
brucină              brucina              
brumar               brumaio              
bucale               bocca                
buccinator           buccinatore          
bucentaur            bucintoro            
bucolic              bucolico             
bucolică             bucolico             
budincă              budino               
bulb                 bulbo                
bulbo                bulbo                
bulimie              bulimia              
bulon                bullone              
buncăr               bunker               
burnuz               burnus               
cablogramă           cablogramma          
cabotaj              cabotaggio           
cacao                cacao                
cacofonie            cacofonia            
cactus               cactus               
cadet                cadetto              
cadril               quadriglia           
cadrilater           quadrilatero         
caiman               caimano              
câine                cane                 
calamina             calamina             
calamus              calamo               
calceolă             calceolă             
calcinare            calcinazione         
calcula              calcolare            
caldeiră             caldera              
caliciu              calice               
caligrafie           calligrafia          
caliptră             caliptră             
calomnia             calunnia             
caloric              calorico             
calorific            calorifico           
calos                calloso              
calviție             calvizie             
camarilă             camarilla            
cambra               cambra               
cămilă               cammello             
camion               camion               
câmp                 campo                
campus               campus               
canalizație          canalizzazione       
cancan               cancan               
cancelar             cancelliere          
cancer               cancro               
candidat             candidato            
candidată            candidato            
canoniza             canonizzare          
canonizare           canonizzazione       
canotaj              canottaggio          
cânta                cantare              
canulă               cannula              
capilar              capillare            
capitat              capitato             
capitolin            capitolino           
capitolinul          capitolino           
capricorn            capricorno           
caprifoi             caprifoglio          
capsidă              capside              
capsulă              capsula              
captivitate          cattività            
captură              catturare            
caracteriza          caratterizzare       
carambol             carambola            
carbuncul            carbonchio           
carbură              carburo              
carbura              carburatore          
cardie               cardias              
carie                carie                
carnivor             carnivoro            
carolă               carol                
carotidă             carotide             
carp                 carpo                
carpelă              carpello             
carpo                carpo                
caserolă             casseruola           
casiterit            cassiterite          
castra               castrare             
catalepsie           catalessi            
cataleptic           catalettico          
cataliză             catalisi             
catapultă            catapulta            
catar                catarro              
catastrofă           catastrofe           
catechism            catechismo           
categoremă           categoremă           
categorie            categoria            
catehism             catechismo           
catenă               catena               
catetă               cateto               
cateter              catetere             
catharsis            catarsi              
caud                 caudale              
cautelă              cautela              
cauterizare          cauterizzazione      
cauzal               causale              
cauzalgie            causalgia            
cav                  cavo                 
cavă                 cava                 
cavernă              caverna              
cavernos             cavernoso            
cazeină              caseina              
cazino               casino               
cazual               casuale              
cecitate             cecità               
ceco                 ceca                 
cedru                cedro                
celestină            celestino            
celibat              celibato             
cement               cemento              
cenotaf              cenotafio            
censor               censore              
cent                 cento                
centenar             centenario           
centralism           centralismo          
centralist           centralista          
centum               centum               
ceramic              ceramica             
cerebro              cerebro              
ceremonial           cerimoniale          
cerezină             ceresina             
ceroplastică         ceroplastică         
cerumen              cerume               
cervical             cervicale            
cervix               cervice              
cesiu                cesio                
cezar                cesare               
cezură               cesura               
chanson              chanson              
chestor              questore             
chestură             questura             
chietism             quietismo            
chilia               cella                
chilie               cella                
chim                 chimo                
chirurg              chirurgo             
chirurgie            chirurgia            
chitină              chitina              
cibernetică          cibernetica          
ciborium             ciborio              
ciclic               ciclico              
ciclist              ciclista             
ciclon               ciclone              
cidru                sidro                
cifoză               cifosi               
cimpanzeu            scimpanzé            
cincinal             quinquennale         
cinematic            cinematica           
cinematică           cinematica           
cinematografie       cinematografia       
cinematografiere     cinematografia       
cingulum             cingolo              
cinism               cinismo              
ciocănitoare         picchio              
circula              circolare            
circular             circolare            
circulară            circolare            
circumcide           circoncidere         
circumcizie          circoncisione        
circumciziune        circoncisione        
circumferență        circonferenza        
circumferință        circonferenza        
circumscrie          circoscrivere        
circumspect          circospetto          
circumspecție        circospezione        
circumspecțiune      circospezione        
circumstanță         circostanza          
cistă                cista                
citrat               citrato              
citric               citrico              
civilitate           civiltà              
civiliza             civilizzare          
clandestin           clandestino          
clastic              clastico             
claustr              chiostro             
claustra             chiostro             
claustro             claustro             
claustrofobie        claustrofobia        
claustru             chiostro             
clavecin             clavicembalo         
claviculă            clavicola            
cleric               chierico             
clerical             clericale            
clericalism          clericalismo         
climatologie         climatologia         
clinic               clinica              
clitoris             clitoride            
cloacă               cloaca               
clonus               clono                
clor                 cloro                
cloral               cloralio             
cloro                cloro                
clorofilă            clorofilla           
clorură              cloruro              
club                 club                 
coagula              coagulare            
coaliție             coalizione           
cobalt               cobalto              
cocardă              coccarda             
coccix               coccige              
cochilie             conchiglia           
cocteil              cocktail             
codicil              codicillo            
coerciție            coercizione          
coercitiv            coercitivo           
coerede              coerede              
coerent              coerente             
coerență             coerenza             
coetern              coeterno             
coeziune             coesione             
cogniție             cognizione           
cohlee               coclea               
cohortă              coorte               
coine                koine                
colabora             collaborare          
colaps               collasso             
colectiv             collettivo           
colectivă            collettivo           
colector             collettore           
coleg                collega              
colegă               collega              
colibri              colibrì              
colocviu             colloquio            
colofon              colofone             
color                colore               
colorare             colorare             
colos                colosso              
columbar             colombario           
columelă             columella            
columnă              colonna              
coluziune            collusione           
combina              combinare            
combină              combinare            
combinațiune         combinazione         
combo                combo                
comemora             commemorare          
comentatoare         commentatore         
comentator           commentatore         
comestibil           commestibile         
cometă               cometa               
comisură             commessura           
comodor              commodoro            
compact              compatto             
compacta             compatto             
compendiu            compendio            
compensa             compensare           
compensațiune        compensazione        
competent            competente           
compila              compilare            
complex              complesso            
complexa             complesso            
complexiune          complessità          
complica             complicare           
compozit             composito            
compozită            composito            
compozitor           compositore          
comprehensibil       comprensibile        
comprehensiune       comprensione         
comprima             comprimere           
compulsare           compulsare           
compulsie            compulsione          
compune              comporre             
computațional        computazionale       
comun                comune               
comunal              comunale             
comunica             comunicare           
comunicant           comunicando          
comunicație          comunicazione        
comunicațiune        comunicazione        
comunicativ          comunicativo         
comunism             comunismo            
comunist             comunista            
comuniune            comunione            
comutație            commutazione         
concept              concetto             
concepție            concezione           
concepțiune          concezione           
conceptual           concettuale          
concesie             concessione          
concesiune           concessione          
conchide             concludere           
conchidere           concludere           
conciliațiune        conciliazione        
conciliator          conciliatore         
concizie             concisione           
concomitant          concomitante         
concomitent          concomitante         
concrețiune          concrezione          
concubină            concubina            
condamna             condannare           
condamnat            condannare           
condițiune           condizione           
condor               condor               
condro               condro               
conductor            conduttore           
confecție            confezione           
confecțiune          confezione           
confervă             confervă             
confesor             confessore           
configurație         configurazione       
confirma             confermare           
confisca             confiscare           
confiteor            confiteor            
conflict             conflitto            
conformație          conformazione        
conformațiune        conformazione        
confruntare          confronto            
congela              congelare            
congestie            congestione          
conglutinare         conglutinare         
congregațiune        congregazione        
congres              congresso            
congruent            congruente           
conjectură           congettura           
conjuga              coniugare            
conjugal             coniugale            
conjugat             coniugare            
conjuncție           congiunzione         
conjunctiv           congiuntivo          
consecință           conseguenza          
consecuție           consecuzione         
consens              consenso             
conservator          conservatore         
considera            considerare          
considerație         considerazione       
consilia             consigliare          
consilier            consigliere          
consoartă            consorte             
consomme             consommé             
conspirație          cospirazione         
conspirațiune        cospirazione         
constant             costante             
constanță            costanza             
constante            costante             
constelație          costellazione        
constelațiune        costellazione        
constrictor          costrittore          
construcție          costruzione          
construcțiune        costruzione          
construi             costruire            
consubstanțial       consustanziale       
consubstanțialitate  consustanzialità     
consulat             consolato            
consult              consultare           
contact              contatto             
contamina            contaminare          
contemplațiune       contemplativo        
context              contesto             
conține              contenere            
continuum            continuo             
contracție           contrazione          
convecție            convezione           
convent              convento             
conversa             conversare           
converti             convertire           
convertit            convertire           
convexitate          convessità           
conviețui            convivere            
convolvulus          convolvolo           
cooperator           cooperatore          
coopta               cooptare             
copios               copioso              
copulă               copula               
copulație            copulazione          
cord                 cuore                
cordi                cuore                
cormoran             cormorano            
cornificare          corneificazione      
coroană              incoronare           
coroda               corrodere            
coronal              coronale             
corpulent            corpulento           
corpulență           corpulento           
cortical             corticale            
corupție             corruzione           
corupțiune           corruzione           
coșenilă             cocciniglia          
costal               costale              
coupe                coupe                
cozoroc              visiera              
crampă               crampo               
cranio               cranio               
craniu               cranio               
crap                 carpa                
crater               cratere              
crea                 creare               
creație              creazione            
creațiune            creazione            
creator              creatore             
credibil             credibile            
cremă                crema                
cremalieră           cremagliera          
creozot              creosoto             
crepidă              crepidă              
crepuscul            crepuscolo           
creson               crescione            
criteriu             criterio             
criză                crisi                
crocant              croccante            
crocodil             coccodrillo          
crom                 cromo                
croma                cromo                
cronică              cronaca              
crucifica            crocifiggere         
crupă                groppa               
crural               crurale              
crustă               crosta               
cuantor              quantum              
cuarț                quarzo               
cub                  cubo                 
cubiculum            cubicolo             
cubism               cubismo              
cubital              cubitale             
culm                 culmo                
culmina              culminare            
culoare              colore               
cult                 culto                
cumul                cumulo               
cumula               cumulare             
cupeu                coupe                
cupiditate           cupidigia            
curara               curaro               
curb                 curvo                
curial               curiale              
cursor               cursore              
cuspidă              cuspide              
cuticulă             cuticola             
cvadrant             quadrante            
cvadrat              quadrato             
cvadratură           quadratura           
cvadrienal           quadriennale         
cvadruplex           quadruplex           
cvorum               quorum               
dadaism              dadaismo             
dalmatic             dalmatica            
dalmatică            dalmatica            
damnațiune           dannazione           
decide               decidere             
decima               decimare             
decizie              decisione            
declara              dichiarare           
declarație           dichiarazione        
declarațiune         dichiarazione        
decorațiune          decorazione          
decortica            decorticare          
decorum              decoro               
decrepit             decrepito            
decrepita            decrepito            
decret               decreto              
deduce               dedurre              
deducțiune           deduttivo            
deductiv             deduttivo            
defeca               defecare             
defecație            defecazione          
defecațiune          defecazione          
defect               difetto              
defectoscopie        difetto              
defenestra           defenestrare         
defenestrare         defenestrare         
deficit              deficit              
defila               sfilata              
defilare             sfilata              
defileu              defile               
defini               definire             
definițiune          definizione          
deflagrație          deflagrazione        
deflație             deflazione           
deforma              deformare            
degetar              ditale               
degustație           degustazione         
degustațiune         degustazione         
deicid               deicidio             
deism                deismo               
deist                deista               
delega               delegare             
delegat              delegare             
delegație            delegazione          
deliberație          deliberativo         
deliberațiune        deliberativo         
deliberativ          deliberativo         
delicios             delizioso            
delicvescent         deliquescente        
delineare            delineare            
delirare             delirare             
demarcațiune         demarcazione         
demisionar           dimissionario        
democratiza          democratizzare       
demola               demolire             
demonstrabil         dimostrabile         
demonstrație         dimostrazione        
demonstrativ         dimostrativo         
demoraliza           demoralizzare        
dendrită             dendrite             
denigra              denigrare            
denota               denotare             
densi                denso                
densitate            densità              
dentiție             dentizione           
dentițiune           dentizione           
depila               depilare             
deporta              deportare            
depoziție            deposizione          
depozițiune          deposizione          
deprava              depravare            
deriva               derivare             
descinde             discendere           
descripțiune         descrittivo          
descriptiv           descrittivo          
descuama             desquamare           
descuamat            desquamare           
desemna              designare            
deshidrata           disidratare          
deshidratare         disidratazione       
desiderata           desiderata           
desinență            desinenza            
destinație           destinazione         
destinațiune         destinazione         
determina            determinare          
detractoare          detrattore           
detractor            detrattore           
detritus             detrito              
deuteriu             deuterio             
devitaliza           devitalizzare        
deziluzie            disillusione         
deziluziune          disillusione         
diabaz               diabase              
diacon               diacono              
diaconat             diaconato            
diacritic            diacritico           
diademă              diadema              
diagonal             diagonale            
diagonală            diagonale            
dialectic            dialettica           
dialectică           dialettica           
dialelă              diallele             
diaree               diarrea              
diareie              diarrea              
diastază             diastasi             
diastemă             diastema             
diastolă             diastole             
diatribă             diatriba             
dicta                dettare              
dictat               dettare              
dictatorial          dittatoriale         
didascalie           didascalia           
dificultate          difficoltà           
digamma              digamma              
digestie             digestione           
dijmă                decima               
dilemă               dilemma              
diligent             diligente            
dinamită             dinamite             
dinamitare           dinamite             
direcție             direzione            
direcțiune           direzione            
director             direttore            
discerne             discernere           
discipol             discepolo            
discipul             discepolo            
discurs              discorso             
disjuncție           disgiunzione         
disonanță            dissonanza           
dispepsie            dispepsia            
distensie            distensione          
distimie             distimia             
distocie             distocia             
diuretic             diuretico            
diversitate          diversità            
diverticul           diverticolo          
divinație            divinazione          
divinațiune          divinazione          
divizor              divisore             
divulgator           divulgatore          
doctrinal            dottrinale           
dogmă                dogma                
dogmatic             dogmatico            
dogmatică            dogmatico            
dolman               dolman               
dolmen               dolmen               
domesticitate        domesticità          
dotă                 dote                 
dotare               dotazione            
drenă                drenare              
drena                drenare              
dromader             dromedario           
dromo                dromo                
drupă                drupa                
duct                 dotto                
ductil               duttile              
dugong               dugongo              
duodecimal           duodecimale          
duoden               duodeno              
duplicație           duplicazione         
duramen              durame               
duumvirat            duumvirato           
ebraic               ebraico              
ebraică              ebraico              
ebuliometru          ebulliometro         
ebuliție             ebollizione          
ebulițiune           ebollizione          
echidistant          equidistante         
echilater            equilatero           
echimoză             ecchimosi            
echinocțial          equinoziale          
echinocțiu           equinozio            
echitate             equità               
echitație            equitazione          
echitațiune          equitazione          
eclampsie            eclampsia            
ectropion            ectropion            
ecuație              equazione            
ecŭațiune            equazione            
ecumenic             ecumenico            
ecvestru             equestre             
eczemă               eczema               
edafic               edafico              
edem                 edema                
edict                editto               
edicule              edicola              
educator             educatore            
efebie               efebia               
efector              effettore            
eferent              efferente            
efuzie               effusione            
efuziune             effusione            
ego                  ego                  
egoism               egoismo              
ejecție              eiezione             
electiv              elettivo             
eleganță             eleganza             
elementar            elementare           
elevație             elevazione           
elicopter            elicottero           
elipsă               ellisse              
eliziune             elisione             
emana                emanare              
emanațiune           emanazione           
emancipa             emancipare           
emancipație          emancipazione        
emancipațiune        emancipazione        
embargo              embargo              
embolus              embolo               
embrion              embrione             
emenagog             emmenagogo           
emerge               emergere             
emetic               emetico              
emfizem              enfisema             
emigra               emigrare             
emisar               emissario            
emisferă             emisfero             
emistih              emistichio           
emolient             emolliente           
emulație             emulazione           
emulațiune           emulazione           
emulsie              emulsione            
emulsiona            emulsionare          
enantem              enantema             
encefal              encefalo             
enciclopedism        enciclopedismo       
enciclopedist        enciclopedista       
endecasilab          endecasillabo        
energumen            energumeno           
enoftalmie           enoftalmo            
enormitate           enormità             
ensiform             ensiforme            
enterită             enterite             
enucleare            enucleare            
enumera              enumerare            
enumerație           enumerazione         
enumerațiune         enumerazione         
epic                 epico                
epică                epico                
epicleză             epiclesi             
epidermă             epidermide           
epididim             epididimo            
epigramă             epigramma            
epigramatic          epigrammatico        
epilepsie            epilessia            
epileptic            epilettico           
episcopal            episcopale           
episcopat            episcopato           
episod               episodio             
epistolar            epistolare           
epitaf               epitaffio            
epitalam             epitalamio           
epitomă              epitome              
eponim               eponimo              
epruvetă             provetta             
erecție              erezione             
eremit               eremita              
erg                  erg                  
eroda                erodere              
eroină               eroina               
erou                 eroe                 
eroziune             erosione             
erupție              eruzione             
eșarfă               sciarpa              
escară               escara               
escatologie          escatologia          
esofag               esofago              
ester                estere               
estuar               estuario             
eter                 etere                
eternitate           eternità             
eteroclit            eteroclito           
etic                 etica                
etică                etica                
etimologie           etimologia           
etiolare             eziolamento          
etologie             etologia             
etos                 ethos                
eufonie              eufonia              
euforie              euforia              
euharistie           eucaristia           
euristică            euristico            
evacua               evacuare             
evangelist           evangelista          
evangheliza          evangelizzare        
evapora              evaporare            
evaziune             evasione             
eversiune            eversione            
evirare              evirare              
evita                evitare              
evitabil             evitabile            
evoca                evocare              
ex                   ex                   
exacerba             esacerbare           
exagera              esagerare            
exaltație            esaltazione          
exaltațiune          esaltazione          
examen               esame                
examinator           esaminatore          
exarh                esarca               
exaspera             esasperare           
excava               scavare              
excepție             eccezione            
excerpta             excerpta             
excitabil            eccitabile           
exclama              esclamare            
exclamație           esclamazione         
exclamațiune         esclamazione         
exclude              escludere            
excluziune           esclusione           
excomunica           scomunicare          
excomunicare         scomunica            
excrescență          escrescenza          
excreție             escrezione           
excrețiune           escretore            
execrabil            esecrabile           
exemplu              esempio              
exercita             esercitare           
exercitare           esercitare           
exhaustiv            esaustivo            
exhiba               esibire              
exil                 esilio               
exod                 esodo                
exorcism             esorcismo            
exorcist             esorcista            
exordiu              esordio              
exotism              esotismo             
expansiune           espansione           
expediție            spedizione           
experiență           esperienza           
experiment           esperimento          
expert               esperto              
expertă              esperto              
expia                espiare              
expiator             espiatorio           
explica              spiegare             
explora              esplorare            
expoziție            esposizione          
expozițiune          esposizione          
expulsie             espulsione           
extensiune           estensione           
extermina            sterminare           
extern               esterno              
externa              esterno              
externalitate        esternalità          
extincție            estinzione           
extorca              estorcere            
extorsiune           estorsione           
extracție            estrazione           
extrage              estrarre             
extras               estrarre             
extremism            estremismo           
extremist            estremista           
extremum             estremo              
extruda              estrudere            
exuberanță           esuberanza           
fabricator           fabbricatore         
fabulă               favola               
fachir               fachiro              
facțiune             fazione              
factor               fattore              
facultate            facoltà              
falangă              falange              
falanster            falansterio          
falarică             falarică             
falus                fallo                
familiar             familiare            
familiaritate        familiarità          
familiariza          familiarizzare       
fanatism             fanatismo            
fandango             fandango             
fantasmagorie        fantasmagoria        
farandolă            farandola            
fasciculă            fascicolo            
fascinație           fascinazione         
fascinațiune         fascinazione         
fatalism             fatalismo            
fatalist             fatalista            
faun                 fauno                
fauvism              fauvismo             
febril               febbrile             
feculă               fecola               
fecunditate          fecondità            
federal              federale             
federalism           federalismo          
federalist           federalista          
federație            federazione          
federativ            federativo           
felah                fellah               
feldmareșal          feldmaresciallo      
feldspat             feldspato            
feminism             femminismo           
feminist             femminista           
fermenta             fermentare           
fermentare           fermentare           
fermentație          fermentazione        
fermentațiune        fermentazione        
fero                 ferro                
festival             festival             
festivitate          festività            
fetid                fetido               
fetișism             feticismo            
fetișist             feticista            
fibră                fibra                
fibulă               fibula               
ficțiune             finzione             
fideism              fideismo             
fideist              fideista             
fidelitate           fedeltà              
fiduciar             fiduciario           
filament             filamento            
filandră             filandra             
filantroapă          filantropo           
filantrop            filantropo           
filantropie          filantropia          
filatelie            filatelia            
filial               filiale              
filiație             filiazione           
filiațiune           filiazione           
filosoafă            filosofo             
filosof              filosofo             
filozoafă            filosofo             
filozof              filosofo             
filozofa             filosofare           
filozofare           filosofare           
filozofic            filosofico           
finalism             finalismo            
fisil                fissile              
fistulos             fistoloso            
fizic                fisico               
fizică               fisica               
flaccid              flaccido             
flagel               flagello             
flagrant             flagrante            
flamenco             flamenco             
flatulență           flatulenza           
flatus               flatus               
flexibil             flessibile           
floem                floema               
flota                flotta               
fluctua              fluttuare            
fluctuație           fluttuazione         
fluctuațiune         fluttuazione         
fluid                fluido               
fluor                fluoro               
fluoro               fluoro               
fluxiune             flusso               
foliațiune           foliazione           
fon                  fon                  
fonațiune            fonazione            
fond                 sfondo               
fonem                fonema               
fonetic              fonetico             
foramen              forame               
formic               formico              
fornicație           fornicazione         
fornix               fornice              
fortificație         fortificazione       
fortuit              fortuito             
fosfat               fosfato              
fosfatare            fosfato              
fosfit               fosfito              
fosgen               fosgene              
fosil                fossile              
fosilă               fossile              
fotogramă            fotogramma           
fovism               fauvismo             
fox                  fox                  
fractal              frattale             
fracție              frazione             
fracțiune            frazione             
fractură             frattura             
fragilitate          fragilità            
fragment             frammento            
franchiză            franchising          
frapat               frappé               
fratern              fraterna             
fraternitate         fraternità           
fraterniza           fraternizzare        
fratricid            fratricidio          
frazeologie          fraseologia          
frezie               fresia               
friabil              friabile             
fricando             fricandò             
frigiditate          frigidità            
frontal              frontale             
frontispiciu         frontespizio         
fruct                frutta               
fructifer            fruttifero           
fructificație        fruttificazione      
fructuos             fruttuoso            
frugal               frugale              
frugalitate          frugalità            
fugitiv              fuggitivo            
fulgurație           folgorazione         
fulmicoton           fulmicotone          
fumigație            fumigazione          
fumigațiune          fumigazione          
funcțiune            funzione             
fundamental          fondamentale         
furaj                foraggio             
furajer              foraggio             
furfurol             furfurolo            
furnicare            formica              
futuro               futuro               
gabardină            gabardine            
ganglio              ganglio              
ganglion             ganglio              
gap                  gap                  
garant               garante              
garnizoană           guarnigione          
garum                garum                
gastronomie          gastronomia          
găun                 cavo                 
găună                cavo                 
genealogie           genealogia           
generalitate         generalità           
generațiune          generazione          
generator            generatore           
generic              generico             
generos              generoso             
generozitate         generosità           
genital              genitale             
genito               genito               
genuflexiune         genuflessione        
genuin               genuino              
germinal             germinale            
germinație           germinazione         
germinațiune         germinazione         
gestație             gestazione           
gestațiune           gestazione           
gesticula            gesticolare          
gherilă              guerriglia           
ghilotină            ghigliottina         
ghilotinare          ghigliottina         
ghilotina            ghigliottina         
gimnastic            ginnastica           
gimnastică           ginnastica           
gin                  gin                  
glacial              glaciale             
gladiator            gladiatore           
glaucom              glaucoma             
glebă                gleba                
glicerină            glicerina            
glifă                glifo                
gliptic              glittica             
gliptică             glittica             
globulă              globulo              
globular             globulare            
glomus               glomo                
glorios              glorioso             
glosar               glossario            
glucoză              glucosio             
glucozat             glucosio             
gluten               glutine              
glutinos             glutinoso            
gnais                gneiss               
gnoseologie          gnoseologia          
gnu                  gnu                  
goeletă              goletta              
gradație             gradazione           
gradient             gradiente            
gramatical           grammaticale         
grande               grande               
granulă              granulo              
gratis               gratis               
gravid               gravido              
gravita              gravitare            
gravitate            gravità              
gravitație           gravità              
grenat               granato              
grohăi               grugnito             
guanaco              guanaco              
guano                guano                
guarani              guarani              
hagiograf            agiografo            
hamac                amaca                
haos                 caos                 
hectar               ettaro               
hedonism             edonismo             
hermeneutic          ermeneutica          
hermeneutică         ermeneutica          
hernie               ernia                
herpes               herpes               
hetairă              etera                
heterodinare         eterodina            
hexametru            esametro             
hiat                 iato                 
hibernal             invernale            
hibernare            ibernazione          
hibiscus             ibisco               
hidrat               idrato               
hidrata              idrato               
hidratare            idratazione          
hidraulic            idraulico            
hidromel             idromele             
hieratic             ieratico             
hioid                ioide                
hipnotic             ipnotico             
hipnotiza            ipnotizzare          
hipnoză              ipnosi               
hipodrom             ippodromo            
hipostază            ipostasi             
hirsut               irsuto               
histerectomie        isterectomia         
histerezis           isteresi             
histrion             istrione             
holmiu               olmio                
homicid              omicidio             
hoplit               oplita               
hormon               ormone               
hornblendă           orneblenda           
horoscop             oroscopo             
iacobin              giacobino            
iacobinism           giacobinismo         
iambic               giambico             
iconoclast           iconoclasta          
icter                ittero               
idem                 idem                 
identifica           identificare         
identitate           identità             
idilă                idillio              
idiom                idioma               
idiot                idiota               
idioție              idiozia              
idolatrie            idolatria            
ienicer              giannizzero          
ieremiadă            geremiade            
iernat               svernamento          
ignobil              ignobile             
ilicit               illecito             
ilustru              illustre             
ilustrație           illustrazione        
ilustrațiune         illustrazione        
iluzie               illusione            
iluziune             illusione            
imaginar             immaginario          
imaginație           immaginazione        
imaginațiune         immaginazione        
imago                imago                
imersiune            immersione           
imigrație            immigrazione         
imitabil             imitabile            
imitațiune           imitazione           
imobil               immobile             
imobilitate          immobilità           
imobiliza            immobilizzare        
imortalitate         immortalità          
impasibil            impassibile          
impasibilitate       impassibilità        
impecabil            impeccabile          
impedanță            impedenza            
impenetrabil         impenetrabile        
imperativ            imperativo           
imperial             imperiale            
imperiu              impero               
impermeabil          impermeabile         
imperturbabil        imperturbabile       
impetuos             impetuoso            
implorație           implorazione         
implorațiune         implorazione         
impopularitate       impopolarità         
importare            importare            
imposibilitate       impossibilità        
impostoare           impostore            
impostor             impostore            
impotent             impotente            
impotență            impotenza            
imprecație           imprecazione         
imprecațiune         imprecazione         
impresionism         impressionismo       
impresionist         impressionista       
impresiune           impressione          
impudent             impudente            
impudență            impudente            
impune               imporre              
impunitate           impunità             
impur                impuro               
impuritate           impurità             
imputație            imputazione          
imund                immondo              
imunitate            immunità             
imuniza              immunizzare          
imutabil             immutabile           
imutabilitate        immutabilità         
inaccesibil          inaccessibile        
inamic               nemico               
incert               incerto              
incest               incesto              
incestuos            incestuoso           
incluziune           inclusione           
incontinent          incontinente         
incontinență         incontinenza         
incoruptibil         incorruttibile       
incoruptibilitate    incorruttibilità     
incredul             incredulo            
incubație            incubazione          
incunabul            incunabolo           
incurabil            incurabile           
indeclinabil         indeclinabile        
indeterminabil       indeterminabile      
indeterminat         indeterminato        
indicație            indicazione          
indicațiune          indicazione          
indicativ            indicativo           
indiferență          indifferenza         
indigest             indigesto            
indigestie           indigestione         
indigoferă           indigofera           
indirect             indiretto            
indisciplină         indisciplina         
indisciplinat        indisciplinato       
indiscreție          indiscrezione        
indistinct           indistinto           
individualiza        individualizzare     
indivizibil          indivisibile         
indolent             indolente            
indolență            indolenza            
indubitabil          indubitabile         
induce               indurre              
inductanță           induttanza           
inducție             induzione            
indulgență           indulgenza           
indult               indulto              
industrie            industria            
ineluctabil          ineluttabile         
inept                inetto               
inestimabil          inestimabile         
inexorabil           inesorabile          
inexperiență         inesperienza         
inexpugnabil         inespugnabile        
inextricabil         inestricabile        
infamie              infamia              
infanticid           infanticidio         
inferență            inferenza            
infernal             infernale            
infidelitate         infedeltà            
infinit              infinito             
infinitate           infinito             
infix                infisso              
inflama              infiammare           
inflamație           infiammazione        
inflamațiune         infiammazione        
inflexibil           inflessibile         
inflexiune           inflessione          
informatiza          informatizzare       
infra                infra                
infulă               infula               
infuzie              infusione            
infuziune            infusione            
ingera               ingerire             
ingestie             ingestione           
inghinal             inguinale            
ingluvie             ingluvie             
inhala               inalare              
inhalație            inalazione           
inhalațiune          inalazione           
inhiba               inibire              
inhibiție            inibizione           
inițiator            iniziatore           
injecta              iniettare            
injecție             iniezione            
injustiție           ingiustizia          
inodor               inodore              
insațiabil           insaziabile          
inscripție           iscrizione           
insidios             insidioso            
insista              insistere            
insistare            insistere            
insolație            insolazione          
insolațiune          insolazione          
insolit              insolito             
insolubil            insolubile           
insomnie             insonnia             
inspecție            ispezione            
inspectoare          ispettore            
inspector            ispettore            
inspira              ispirare             
inspirație           ispirazione          
inspirațiune         ispirazione          
instabil             instabile            
instiga              istigare             
instigator           istigatore           
instinct             istinto              
institut             istituto             
instituție           istituzione          
instituțiune         istituzione          
instructiv           istruttivo           
instructor           istruttore           
instrument           strumento            
insular              insulare             
insultă              insultare            
intact               intatto              
integral             integrale            
integrală            integrale            
integrant            integrale            
integrantă           integrale            
integritate          integrità            
intelect             intelletto           
intelecție           intelletto           
intelectual          intellettuale        
inteligent           intelligente         
inteligență          intelligenza         
intens               intenso              
intercede            intercedere          
intercedere          intercedere          
intercepta           intercettare         
intercesiune         intercessione        
interdicțiune        interdizione         
interfață            interfaccia          
interferon           interferone          
interimar            interim              
interimat            interim              
interjecție          interiezione         
interpela            interpellare         
interpola            interpolare          
interpolație         interpolazione       
interpolator         interpolatore        
interpoziție         interposizione       
interpune            interporre           
interregn            interregno           
intersecție          intersezione         
interveni            intervenire          
intervenire          intervenire          
intervenție          intervento           
interviu             intervista           
intimare             intimare             
intonațiune          intonazione          
intoxicare           intossicazione       
intranzitiv          intransitivo         
intrinsec            intrinseco           
introduce            introdurre           
intumescență         intumescente         
inula                inula                
invalida             invalidare           
invazie              invasione            
inventar             inventario           
invenție             invenzione           
inversiune           inversione           
investigator         investigatore        
invincibil           invincibile          
inviolabil           inviolabile          
invitare             invito               
invizibil            invisibile           
invizibilitate       invisibilità         
invoca               invocare             
invocație            invocazione          
involucru            involucro            
involuntar           involontario         
involuție            involuzione          
invulnerabil         invulnerabile        
iod                  iodio                
ipecacuana           ipecacuana           
ipotenuză            ipotenusa            
ipotetic             ipotetico            
iradiație            irradiazione         
iradiațiune          irradiazione         
irațional            irrazionale          
irecuzabil           irrecusabile         
ireligios            irreligioso          
iriga                irrigare             
irigație             irrigazione          
irigațiune           irrigazione          
iritabil             irritabile           
iritabilitate        irritabilità         
iritație             irritazione          
iritațiune           irritazione          
ironic               ironico              
ironie               ironia               
irupție              irruzione            
irupțiune            irruzione            
îs                   se                   
isoscel              isoscele             
istm                 istmo                
iterativ             iterativo            
ivorian              ivoriano             
jardinier            giardiniere          
jartieră             giarrettiera         
jejun                digiuno              
jeton                gettone              
jugulare             giugulare            
junglă               giungla              
juntă                giunta               
jurisdicție          giurisdizione        
justifica            giustificare         
juvenil              giovanile            
juxtapoziție         giustapposizione     
juxtapune            giustapporre         
karibu               caribù               
killer               killer               
koine                koine                
kore                 kore                 
lab                  lab                  
labarum              labaro               
labial               labiale              
labială              labiale              
labiată              labiale              
labie                labiale              
labil                labile               
labirint             labirinto            
laborios             laborioso            
lacerație            lacerazione          
lactescent           lattescente          
lactic               lattico              
lambda               lambda               
lamentație           lamentazione         
lamentațiune         lamentazione         
lanist               lanista              
lanolină             lanolina             
lapicid              lapicida             
lapidar              lapidario            
lapidariu            lapidario            
lăptar               lattaio              
larvă                larva                
larvi                larva                
lasciv               lascivo              
lateral              laterale             
laterit              laterite             
latinitate           latinità             
latrină              latrina              
laudanum             laudano              
laxativ              lassativo            
laxitate             lassità              
lecitină             lecitina             
lectoră              lettorato            
legal                legale               
legaliza             legalizzare          
legatar              legatario            
legatară             legatario            
legație              legazione            
legendă              leggenda             
legionar             legionario           
legislație           legislazione         
legislațiune         legislazione         
legislativ           legislativo          
legislator           legislatore          
legitim              legittimo            
legitima             legittimo            
leguminoasă          legume               
lemur                lemure               
lenticular           lenticolare          
lepidolit            lepidolite           
letargic             letargico            
letargie             letargia             
leton                lettone              
levit                levita               
levuloză             levulosio            
lexic                lessico              
lexicon              lessico              
leziune              lesione              
libație              libagione            
libațiune            libagione            
liberal              liberale             
libertar             libertario           
libertate            libertà              
libertin             libertino            
libertinaj           libertinaggio        
libido               libido               
libră                libra                
liburnă              liburna              
licențios            licenzioso           
liceu                liceo                
lichen               lichen               
lichid               liquido              
lichiditate          liquidità            
ligni                lignite              
lignit               lignite              
liliuță              giglio               
lineament            lineamento           
linear               lineare              
lingotieră           lingottiera          
lingou               lingotto             
lingulă              lingula              
lingvist             linguista            
lingvistă            linguista            
lingvistic           linguistica          
lingvistică          linguistica          
liniar               lineare              
links                link                 
lînos                lanoso               
linotip              linotype             
linșaj               linciaggio           
linșare              linciaggio           
lipomatoză           lipomatosi           
litanie              litania              
literal              letterale            
literar              letterario           
literare             letterario           
literatură           letteratura          
litigios             litigioso            
litopon              litopone             
lituus               lituo                
livid                livido               
livrea               livrea               
lob                  lobo                 
local                locale               
localitate           località             
locomoție            locomozione          
locupletare          locupletare          
loga                 login                
logică               logica               
longevitate          longevità            
lordoză              lordosi              
lorică               lorica               
loțiune              lozione              
lotus                loto                 
lubrifia             lubrificare          
lubrificație         lubrificazione       
lucrativ             lucrativo            
lumbar               lombare              
lumen                lumen                
lunație              lunazione            
lunulă               lunula               
lupulină             luppolina            
lupus                lupus                
lustral              lustrale             
lustrație            lustrazione          
lustrațiune          lustrazione          
luteo                luteo                
luxație              lussazione           
luxațiune            lussazione           
macabru              macabro              
macac                macaco               
macera               macerare             
macerație            macerazione          
macerațiune          macerazione          
macis                macis                
macro                macro                
maculare             maculare             
magdalenian          magdaleniano         
magie                magia                
magistral            magistrale           
magistrat            magistrato           
magnet               magnete              
magnetic             magnetico            
magnific             magnifico            
maiestate            maestà               
maieutică            maieutica            
mailing              mailing              
mână                 mano                 
maioneză             maionese             
major                maggiore             
malar                malare               
maleabil             malleabile           
maleat               maleato              
malefic              malefico             
maleolă              malleolo             
malgaș               malgascio            
malgașă              malgascio            
malic                malico               
malignitate          malignità            
maliție              malizia              
malonic              malonico             
malț                 malto                
mameluc              mamelucco            
mamifer              mammifero            
manager              manager              
mandibulă            mandibola            
mandrină             mandrino             
mânecă               manicotto            
manevrare            manovra              
manevra              manovra              
mango                mango                
mangustă             mangusta             
manichiură           manicure             
manie                mania                
manierist            manierista           
manioc               manioca              
manometru            manometro            
mansardat            mansardato           
mansion              magione              
mantilă              mantiglia            
mantisă              mantissa             
manumisiune          manomissione         
marabut              marabù               
maravedi             maravedi             
mareșal              maresciallo          
margarină            margarina            
mărinimie            magnanimità          
mărinimos            magnanimo            
măritare             măritare             
maritim              marittimo            
marțian              marziano             
martingală           martingala           
masacra              massacro             
masacru              massacro             
masaj                massaggio            
masochism            masochismo           
mastaba              mastaba              
masticațiune         masticazione         
mastită              mastite              
mastopatie           mastite              
masturbație          masturbazione        
material             materiale            
materialism          materialismo         
matri                matrice              
matrice              matrice              
mătrice              matrice              
matricid             matricidio           
matrimonial          matrimoniale         
matronă              matrona              
maturație            maturazione          
maturitate           maturità             
mausoleu             mausoleo             
maxilă               mascellare           
maxilar              mascellare           
maxili               mascellare           
maxim                massimo              
maximă               massimo              
maximum              massimo              
mazurcă              mazurca              
meato                meato                
meconiu              meconio              
medial               mediale              
mediastin            mediastino           
mediație             mediazione           
mediator             mediatore            
medicație            medicazione          
medicațiune          medicazione          
medico               medico               
mediocritate         mediocrità           
medita               meditare             
meditație            meditazione          
meditațiune          meditazione          
mediteran            mediterraneo         
medulo               midollo              
mefitic              mefitico             
megatonă             megaton              
mehari               mehari               
meioză               meiosi               
melc                 lumaca               
meliorism            migliorismo          
membră               membro               
membru               membro               
memorabil            memorabile           
memorandum           memorandum           
memoriza             memorizzare          
menestrel            menestrello          
menisc               menisco              
meniu                menu                 
menstrual            mestruale            
menstrue             mestruale            
ment                 mento                
mentă                menta                
mercenar             mercenario           
mercerie             merceria             
mercur               mercurio             
mericism             mericismo            
merinos              merino               
meristem             meristema            
mescal               mescal               
mesia                messia               
mesianic             messianico           
mesianism            messianismo          
metabolism           metabolismo          
metacarp             metacarpo            
metal                metallo              
metaliza             metallizzare         
metaloid             metalloide           
metalurgie           metallurgia          
metamorfism          metamorfismo         
metamorfoză          metamorfosi          
metastază            metastasi            
metilen              metilene             
metonimie            metonimia            
metraj               metraggio            
metric               metrico              
metropolitan         metropolitano        
metru                metro                
mezenter             mesentere            
miasmă               miasma               
microcosm            microcosmo           
micron               micron               
microprocesor        microprocessore      
midriază             midriasi             
mierlă               merlo                
migra                migrare              
migrațiune           migrazione           
migrenă              emicrania            
milenar              millenario           
militarism           militarismo          
militarist           militarista          
militariza           militarizzare        
miliție              milizia              
milonga              milonga              
minaret              minareto             
mineral              minerale             
mineralizație        mineralizzazione     
mineralogie          mineralogia          
minim                minimo               
minimum              minimo               
minister             ministero            
ministerial          ministeriale         
ministru             ministro             
miniu                minio                
minor                minore               
mintal               mentale              
minus                meno                 
minuscul             minuscolo            
minusculă            minuscolo            
minută               minuto               
miocen               miocene              
miracul              miracolo             
miraj                miraggio             
miscelaneu           miscellanea          
miserere             miserere             
mister               mistero              
mistică              mistico              
mit                  mito                 
mizerie              miseria              
moar                 moire                
mobilitate           mobilità             
mocasin              mocassino            
moderațiune          moderazione          
modernism            modernismo           
modernist            modernista           
moderniza            modernizzare         
modist               modista              
modula               modulare             
modulațiune          modulazione          
molar                molare               
molare               molare               
moleculă             molecola             
molesta              molestare            
molibden             molibdeno            
molibdenit           molibdenite          
monahal              monacale             
monarh               monarca              
monarhie             monarchia            
monism               monismo              
monitoriza           monitorare           
monitorizare         monitoraggio         
monoclu              monocolo             
monogamie            monogamia            
monogramă            monogramma           
monoplan             monoplano            
monopoliza           monopolizzare        
monosilabă           monosillabo          
monoton              monotono             
monstru              mostro               
monstruos            mostruoso            
montan               montagna             
monument             monumento            
moră                 mora                 
moral                morale               
morală               morale               
moralitate           moralità             
mordace              mordace              
morfină              morfina              
moro                 moro                 
mortalitate          mortalità            
mortificațiune       mortificazione       
mortuar              mortuario            
morvă                morva                
motel                motel                
motor                motore               
motoriza             motorizzare          
mucron               mucrone              
mucus                muco                 
muezin               muezzin              
muftiu               mufti                
mulatru              mulatto              
multicolor           multicolore          
multiform            multiforme           
multiplica           moltiplicare         
multiplicand         moltiplicando        
multiplicator        moltiplicatore       
multiplicitate       molteplicità         
mundan               mondano              
mural                murale               
musculos             muscoloso            
muson                monsone              
mustang              mustang              
musterian            musteriano           
mutabil              mutabile             
mutabilitate         mutabilità           
mutație              mutazione            
mutila               mutilare             
mutism               mutismo              
muzeu                museo                
nabab                nababbo              
naftă                nafta                
nandu                nandu                
nanism               nanismo              
narator              narratore            
narcis               narciso              
narcoză              narcosi              
nard                 nardo                
nartex               nartece              
narval               narvalo              
natica               natica               
nație                nazione              
naționaliza          nazionalizzare       
nativ                nativo               
naturalitate         naturalità           
naturism             naturismo            
nausea               nausea               
navetă               navetta              
navigațiune          navigazione          
nazism               nazismo              
nebulos              nebuloso             
nebulozitate         nebulosità           
necropolă            necropoli            
nectar               nettare              
nectari              nettare              
nefrită              nefrite              
nefritic             nefritico            
negație              negazione            
negocia              negoziare            
negociator           negoziatore          
neologism            neologismo           
neon                 neon                 
neuston              neuston              
neutro               neutro               
nicotină             nicotina             
nihilism             nichilismo           
nistagmus            nistagmo             
nitril               nitrile              
nobiliar             nobile               
nocturn              notturno             
nodos                nodoso               
nomenclatură         nomenclatura         
nominal              nominale             
nominativ            nominativo           
non                  non                  
noria                noria                
nostalgie            nostalgia            
notar                notaio               
nota                 notare               
notație              notazione            
notațiune            notazione            
notifica             notificare           
noțiune              nozione              
noutate              novità               
novație              novazione            
novațiune            novazione            
novocaină            novocaina            
nucleol              nucleolo             
nucleotid            nucleotide           
nucleŭ               nucleo               
nuditate             nudità               
nul                  nullo                
nuli                 nullo                
numeral              numerale             
nupțial              nuziale              
nutriție             nutrizione           
nutrițiune           nutrizione           
obediență            obbedienza           
obelisc              obelisco             
obez                 obeso                
obezitate            obesità              
obiect               oggetto              
obiecție             obiezione            
obiectiv             obiettivo            
obiectiva            obiettivo            
oblic                obliquo              
oblica               obliquo              
oblici               obliquo              
oblicitate           obliquità            
obligatoriu          obbligatorio         
oblong               oblungo              
obscen               osceno               
obscenitate          oscenità             
obscurantism         oscurantismo         
obscuritate          oscurità             
observabil           osservabile          
observație           osservazione         
observațiune         osservazione         
observator           osservatore          
obsesie              ossessione           
obsidian             ossidiana            
obstrucție           ostruzione           
obține               ottenere             
obtura               otturare             
obturație            otturazione          
ocazie               occasione            
occident             occidente            
occidental           occidentale          
ocean                oceano               
ocră                 ocra                 
ocru                 ocra                 
octant               ottante              
octogenar            ottuagenario         
oculist              oculista             
oculistă             oculista             
oculomotor           oculomotore          
ocult                occulto              
oculta               occulto              
ocultație            occultazione         
oculus               oculo                
ocupa                occupare             
ocupație             occupazione          
odaliscă             odalisca             
oficie               officiare            
oficial              ufficiale            
oficia               officiare            
oficiere             ufficiatura          
oficiu               ufficio              
ofsaid               fuorigioco           
oleic                oleico               
oleină               oleina               
oleum                oleum                
olfacție             olfatto              
olifant              olifante             
omagiere             omaggio              
ombilic              ombelico             
omento               omento               
omisiune             omissione            
omite                omettere             
omnipotență          onnipotenza          
omniprezent          onnipresente         
omnisciență          onniscienza          
omnium               omnium               
omnivor              onnivoro             
ondatră              ondatra              
oneros               oneroso              
oniric               onirico              
onorabil             onorevole            
onorar               onorario             
opacitate            opacità              
operațiune           operazione           
operatoare           operatore            
operator             operatore            
opercul              opercolo             
opinare              opinare              
opinie               opinione             
opiu                 oppio                
oportunism           opportunismo         
oportunist           opportunista         
oportunitate         opportunità          
opozit               oppositore           
opoziție             opposizione          
opresiune            oppressione          
oprobriŭ             obbrobrio            
optare               optare               
optație              ottativo             
optativ              ottativo             
optic                ottico               
optică               ottico               
optimism             ottimismo            
optimist             ottimista            
opțional             opzionale            
opțiune              opzione              
orație               orazione             
orbicular            orbicolare           
ordinal              ordinale             
organic              organico             
organum              organum              
orgie                orgia                
orientalism          orientalismo         
orientalist          orientalista         
orientalistă         orientalista         
original             originale            
orleanist            orleanista           
ornamentație         ornamentazione       
ortodoxie            ortodossia           
ortografie           ortografia           
osana                osanna               
osanale              osanna               
oscilație            oscillazione         
oscilațiune          oscillazione         
osculație            osculazione          
osculațiune          osculazione          
osmanlâu             osmanli              
osmoză               osmosi               
ospitalitate         ospitalità           
osteită              osteite              
ostilitate           ostilità             
ostium               ostio                
oxalic               ossalico             
oxid                 ossido               
oxida                ossidare             
oxigen               ossigeno             
oxigena              ossigenare           
oximoron             ossimoro             
ozon                 ozono                
ozonat               ozono                
pacifist             pacifista            
pact                 patto                
pagodă               pagoda               
pâine                pane                 
pâinea               pane                 
palanchin            palanchino           
palimpsest           palinsesto           
palinodie            palinodia            
palium               pallio               
palla                palla                
palm                 palma                
palmitină            palmitină            
palpabil             palpabile            
palpa                palpare              
palpebral            palpebra             
panaceie             panacea              
panaceu              panacea              
pancartă             cartello             
pangolin             pangolino            
panoplie             panoplia             
panus                panno                
papilă               papilla              
papism               papismo              
parabolă             parabola             
paraboloid           paraboloide          
paracenteză          paracentesi          
paradigmă            paradigma            
paradox              paradosso            
paralaxă             parallasse           
paralitic            paralitico           
parametru            parametro            
paranoia             paranoia             
paranteză            parentesi            
parazit              parassita            
pareză               paresi               
parietal             parietale            
parietală            parietale            
paritate             parità               
paronomasie          paronomasia          
paronomază           paronomasia          
parotidă             parotide             
partener             partner              
parteneră            partner              
partenogeneză        partenogenesi        
participa            partecipare          
partiție             partizione           
partă                parto                
pasă                 passare              
pasager              passeggero           
pascal               pasquale             
pasional             passionale           
pasivitate           passività            
pasteuriza           pastorizzare         
pastor               pastore              
păstori              pastore              
păstorul             pastore              
pateră               patera               
patern               paterno              
paternitate          paternità            
patetic              patetico             
pateu                pate                 
patrimonial          patrimoniale         
patriotism           patriottismo         
patronimic           patronimico          
patrulare            pattuglia            
patrula              pattuglia            
patrulater           quadrilatero         
patrunghiular        quadrangolare        
patruped             quadrupede           
peaj                 pedaggio             
pebrină              pebrină              
pectoral             pettorale            
peculiar             peculiare            
pedichiură           pedicure             
pedicur              pedicure             
pedologie            pedologia            
pedosferă            pedosferă            
peduncul             peduncolo            
pegmatit             pegmatite            
pehblendă            pechblenda           
pelagră              pellagra             
peliculă             pellicola            
pelotă               pelota               
pelvis               pelvi                
pemfigus             pemfigo              
penal                penale               
penetra              penetrare            
penetrabil           penetrabile          
penetrație           penetrazione         
penetrațiune         penetrazione         
peninsulă            penisola             
penis                pene                 
penitent             penitente            
pensiune             pensione             
pentametru           pentametro           
pentateuh            pentateuco           
pentatlon            pentathlon           
penultim             penultimo            
peonia               peonia               
pepită               pepita               
peplu                peplo                
pepsină              pepsina              
peptonă              peptone              
perceptibil          percettibile         
percepție            percezione           
perdiție             perdizione           
perdițiune           perdizione           
peren                perenne              
perena               perenne              
perfecțiune          perfezione           
perfidie             perfidia             
perfora              perforare            
perforație           perforazione         
perforațiune         perforazione         
perfuzie             perfusione           
pericarp             pericarpo            
pericopă             pericope             
perimetru            perimetro            
perineo              perineo              
perineu              perineo              
perioadă             periodo              
periodic             periodico            
peripatetic          peripatetico         
peripatetism         peripatetismo        
periplu              periplo              
permutație           permutazione         
permutațiune         permutazione         
perora               perorare             
perorație            perorazione          
perpendicular        perpendicolare       
perpendiculară       perpendicolare       
perpetuu             perpetuo             
perpetua             perpetuare           
perplex              perplesso            
perplexitate         perplessità          
persecuție           persecuzione         
persecuțiune         persecuzione         
persecutor           persecutore          
persevera            perseverare          
perseverație         perseverazione       
perseverență         perseveranza         
persuada             persuadere           
persuasiune          persuasione          
pertinent            pertinente           
perversitate         perversità           
perversiune          perversione          
pervertire           pervertire           
pervincă             pervinca             
pesar                pessario             
pesimism             pessimismo           
pesimist             pessimista           
pestilență           pestilenziale        
petală               petalo               
petit                petit                
petiție              petizione            
petițiune            petizione            
petulant             petulante            
petun                petunia              
petunie              petunia              
pi                   pi                   
picaresc             picaresco            
picaro               picaro               
pichet               picchetto            
picric               picrico              
pictor               pittore              
pictură              pittura              
pidgin               pidgin               
piele                pelle                
pietism              pietismo             
pietist              pietista             
pigment              pigmento             
pijama               pigiama              
pileat               pileato              
pilor                piloro               
pineal               pineale              
pineală              pineale              
pinguin              pinguino             
pinion               pignone              
piolet               piolet               
pionier              pioniere             
pionieră             pioniere             
pios                 pio                  
piperazină           piperazina           
pipetă               pipetta              
piramidal            piramidale           
pirat                pirata               
piridină             piridina             
piruetă              piroetta             
pirueta              piroetta             
piscicultură         piscicoltura         
piscină              piscina              
pisiform             pisiforme            
pistil               pistillo             
placebo              placebo              
placentă             placenta             
placiditate          placidità            
plagiat              plagio               
plancton             plancton             
planetă              pianeta              
planetar             planetario           
planetară            planetario           
plantație            piantagione          
plantațiune          piantagione          
plantigrad           plantigrado          
plastic              plastica             
plastică             plastica             
plateresc            plateresco           
plauzibil            plausibile           
plebeu               plebeo               
plebi                plebe                
plebiscit            plebiscito           
pleonasm             pleonasmo            
plerom               pleroma              
plex                 plesso               
plisat               plissettato          
pluralism            pluralismo           
pluralitate          pluralità            
pluvial              pluviale             
pluvio               pluvio               
pneumectomie         pneumonectomia       
podium               podio                
poem                 poesia               
poemă                poesia               
pol                  polo                 
polakiurie           pollachiuria         
policlinică          policlinico          
poligon              poligono             
polio                poliomielite         
poliomielită         poliomielite         
polis                polis                
politehnic           politecnico          
politehnică          politecnico          
politeism            politeismo           
politeist            politeista           
politic              politico             
polo                 polo                 
pompaj               pompaggio            
pompier              pompiere             
pompos               pomposo              
ponderabil           ponderabile          
ponton               pontone              
popular              popolare             
popularitate         popolarità           
populațiune          popolazione          
por                  poro                 
pornograf            pornografo           
pornografie          pornografia          
porțiune             porzione             
posesie              possesso             
posesiune            possesso             
posesiv              possessivo           
posibil              possibile            
posibilitate         possibilità          
poștă                postare              
posterior            posteriore           
posteritate          posterità            
postero              postero              
postula              postulato            
postulație           postulato            
postum               postumo              
postumă              postumo              
potabil              potabile             
potaș                potassa              
potasă               potassa              
potent               potente              
potentat             potentato            
potențial            potenziale           
poțiune              pozione              
poziție              posizione            
pozițiune            positivo             
pozitiv              positivo             
pozitivism           positivismo          
pozitivist           positivista          
pragmatic            pragmatico           
pragmatică           pragmatico           
pragmatism           pragmatismo          
pralină              pralina              
prânz                pranzo               
precept              precetto             
preceptor            precettore           
precesie             precessione          
precesiune           precessione          
precursoare          precursore           
precursor            precursore           
predecesoare         predecessore         
predecesor           predecessore         
predicație           predicazione         
predicațiune         predicazione         
predicativ           predicativo          
predicție            predizione           
prefect              prefetto             
prefectură           prefettura           
prefera              preferire            
preferi              preferire            
pregăti              preparare            
pregusta             pregustare           
pregustat            pregustare           
prematur             prematuro            
premedita            premeditare          
premier              premier              
premoniție           premonizione         
prepara              preparare            
preparație           preparazione         
preparator           preparatore          
preparatoriŭ         preparatorio         
prepoziție           preposizione         
prepuț               prepuzio             
prerogativă          prerogativa          
prescriptibil        prescrittibile       
prescripție          prescrizione         
prestațiune          prestazione          
pretext              pretesto             
pretor               pretore              
pretoriu             pretorio             
prevaricator         prevaricatore        
preventoriu          preventorio          
previn               prevenire            
prevină              prevenire            
prezbiacuzie         presbiacusia         
prezbiopie           presbiopia           
prezbiteriu          presbiterio          
prezerva             preservare           
prezenta             presentare           
primulă              primula              
principat            principato           
priva                privare              
privat               privato              
privațiune           privazione           
privativ             privativo            
privez               privare              
probabilitate        probabilità          
probitate            probità              
problemă             problema             
proceda              procedere            
procesiune           processione          
procesor             processore           
proclama             proclamare           
proclamație          proclamazione        
proconsul            proconsole           
proconsular          proconsolare         
proconsulat          proconsolato         
procrea              procreare            
procreație           procreazione         
procreațiune         procreazione         
proctalgie           proctalgia           
proctologie          proctologia          
procurator           procuratore          
procuror             procuratore          
prodiga              prodigo              
produc               produrre             
produce              produrre             
product              prodotto             
profan               profano              
profana              profano              
profesie             professione          
profesiogramă        professione -        
profesiune           professione          
profet               profeta              
profuziune           profusione           
progenitor           progenitore          
progresie            progressione         
progresiune          progressione         
proiect              progetto             
proiecție            proiezione           
prolaps              prolasso             
prolegomene          prolegomeni          
prolifer             proliferazione       
proliferare          proliferazione       
prolix               prolisso             
promiscuu            promiscuo            
promite              promettere           
promoțiune           promotore            
promotoare           promotore            
promotor             promotore            
promova              promuovere           
promulga             promulgare           
pronominal           pronominale          
pronostic            prognostico          
pronume              pronome              
propaga              propagare            
propagandă           propaganda           
propensiune          propensione          
propionic            propionico           
proporție            proporzione          
proporții            proporzione          
proporționalitate    proporzionalità      
proporțiune          proporzione          
propriu              proprio              
proprietar           proprietario         
proprietară          proprietario         
proprietate          proprietà            
propulsie            propulsione          
propune              proporre             
proscrie             proscrivere          
prospect             prospetto            
prosperitate         prosperità           
prostată             prostata             
prostituată          prostituta           
prostitută           prostituta           
prostituție          prostituzione        
protază              protasi              
protecție            protezione           
protecționism        protezionismo        
protector            protettore           
proteja              proteggere           
protestant           protestante          
protestantism        protestantesimo      
protocol             protocollo           
prototip             prototipo            
protuberanță         protuberanza         
provensal            provenzale           
provensală           provenzale           
proverb              proverbio            
proverbial           proverbiale          
providențial         provvidenziale       
provider             provider             
provincial           provinciale          
provocație           provocazione         
provocator           provocatorio         
proză                prosa                
prozelitism          proselitismo         
prozodie             prosodia             
prurigo              prurigo              
prurit               prurito              
prusic               prussico             
psalm                salmo                
psalmist             salmista             
psi                  psi                  
ptomaină             ptomaina             
ptoză                ptosi                
pubertate            pubertà              
pubescent            pubescente           
publican             pubblicano           
publicist            pubblicista          
publicistă           pubblicista          
publicitate          pubblicità           
puding               budino               
puerperal            puerperale           
pulmon               polmone              
pulpos               polposo              
pulsar               pulsar               
pupăză               upupa                
pupilă               pupilla              
pupilar              pupillare            
pur                  puro                 
pură                 puro                 
purgare              purgare              
purgație             purgazione           
purism               purismo              
purist               purista              
puritan              puritano             
puroi                pus                  
purulent             purulento            
putativ              putativo             
putativă             putativo             
putrefacție          putrefazione         
putrescibil          putrescibile         
putrid               putrido              
quadrivium           quadrivio            
rabic                rabbia               
rabinic              rabbinico            
racemi               racemo               
radiar               radiale              
radiație             radiazione           
radiațiune           radiazione           
radioactiv           radioattivo          
radioactivitate      radioattività        
radius               raggio               
raliere              rally                
ramazan              ramadan              
ramură               ramo                 
rânced               rancido              
râncezi              rancido              
ranch                ranch                
rang                 rango                
râs                  riso                 
ratafia              ratafia              
ratieră              ratieră              
ratinare             ratinare             
ravieră              raviera              
raz                  raz                  
râde                 ridere               
realitate            realtà               
rebel                ribelle              
receptacul           ricettacolo          
recepție             ricezione            
receptiv             ricettivo            
reces                recesso              
recesiune            recessione           
rechiziție           requisizione         
recipe               ricetta              
reciprocitate        reciprocità          
recita               recitare             
recrea               ricreare             
recreație            ricreazione          
recrudescență        recrudescenza        
rect                 retto                
rectifica            rettificare          
recto                recto                
rector               rettore              
rectum               retto                
reduce               ridurre              
redundanță           ridondanza           
refectoriu           refettorio           
referentă            referente            
reflecta             riflettere           
reflecție            riflessione          
reflector            riflettore           
reflexie             riflesso             
reflux               riflusso             
reformator           riformatore          
reformist            riformista           
refractar            refrattario          
refracție            rifrazione           
refracțiune          rifrazione           
refugiu              rifugio              
regenera             rigenerare           
regenerat            rigenerare           
regim                regime               
regină               regina               
regresiune           regressione          
regulat              regolare             
reificare            reificazione         
religiune            religione            
remediabil           rimediabile          
remisiune            remissione           
renal                renale               
reni                 renna                
renunța              rinunciare           
renunțare            rinuncia             
reparație            riparazione          
reparațiune          riparazione          
repercusiune         ripercussione        
repertoriu           repertorio           
repetiție            ripetizione          
repetițiune          ripetizione          
represor             repressore           
reprezenta           rappresentare        
reprezentațiune      rappresentazione     
reprima              reprimere            
reptil               rettile              
repulsie             repulsione           
repulsiune           repulsione           
resciziune           rescissione          
rescript             rescritto            
resonator            risonatore           
respecta             rispetto             
respira              respirare            
respirație           respirazione         
respirațiune         respirazione         
restaurant           ristorante           
restaurator          restauratore         
restituție           restituzione         
restituțiune         restituzione         
restricție           restrizione          
restricțiune         restrizione          
restrictiv           restrittivo          
resurecție           resurrezione         
resursă              risorsa              
retenție             ritenzione           
reticență            reticenza            
reticulo             reticolo             
retracție            ritrazione           
retribuție           retribuzione         
retrocesiune         retrocessione        
retrogradație        retrogradazione      
retrogradațiune      retrogradazione      
revanșism            revanscismo          
revela               rivelare             
revelație            rivelazione          
revelațiune          rivelazione          
reverend             reverendo            
reverendă            reverendo            
reverență            riverenza            
reversie             reversione           
reversiune           reversione           
reviziune            revisione            
revoca               revocare             
revocabil            revocabile           
revoluție            rivoluzione          
revoluționa          rivoluzionare        
revoluționar         rivoluzionario       
revoluțiune          rivoluzione          
revulsiv             revulsivo            
rezecție             resezione            
rezină               resina               
rezista              resistere            
rezoluție            risoluzione          
ricșă                risciò               
ridicul              ridicolo             
rigă                 re                   
rigorist             rigorista            
rivalitate           rivalità             
rizibil              risibile             
robă                 robe                 
robust               robusto              
rococo               rococò               
rodeo                rodeo                
roibă                robbia               
rol                  ruolo                
rombo                rombo                
rostral              rostrale             
rostru               rostro               
rotație              rotazione            
rotațiune            rotazione            
rotulă               rotula               
rublă                rublo                
rudiment             rudimento            
rummy                ramino               
rupicol              rupicola             
rural                rurale               
rusifica             russificare          
rustic               rustico              
rusticitate          rusticità            
rutil                rutilo               
sabotaj              sabotaggio           
șacal                sciacallo            
sacerdotal           sacerdotale          
sacrifica            sacrificare          
sacrificare          sacrificare          
sacrileg             sacrilego            
sacrilege            sacrilegio           
sacro                sacro                
sacrosanct           sacrosanto           
sadism               sadismo              
safari               safari               
safism               saffismo             
safranină            safranina            
sagu                 sagu                 
șal                  scialle              
salamandră           salamandra           
salangană            salangană            
salbandă             salbandă             
sali                 sale                 
salivă               saliva               
salivare             salivare             
salivație            salivazione          
salivațiune          salivazione          
salmon               salmone              
salubru              salubre              
salutar              salutare             
salvator             salvatore            
salvie               salvia               
sambă                samba                
șambelan             ciambellano          
samovar              samovar              
sân                  seno                 
sanatoriu            sanatorio            
sanctifica           santificare          
sanctuar             santuario            
sandarac             sandracca            
sânge                sangue               
sângera              sanguinare           
sângerând            sanguinamento        
sângerare            sanguinamento        
sanguin              sanguine             
sanguină             sangue               
sangvin              sangue               
sano                 sano                 
santal               sandalo              
santină              sentina              
sapient              sapiente             
săptămână            settimana            
saramură             salamoia             
sarcasm              sarcasmo             
sarcofag             sarcofago            
sardonic             sardonico            
șarnieră             cerniera             
satană               satana               
sațietate            sazietà              
satiră               satira               
satiric              satirico             
satisface            soddisfare           
satrap               satrapo              
satrapie             satrapia             
saturație            saturazione          
saturațiune          saturazione          
savană               savana               
saxifragă            sassifraga           
scalar               scalare              
scalen               scaleno              
scandaliza           scandalizzare        
scânteie             scintilla            
scapulă              scapola              
scatologie           scatologia           
scăŭnel              sgabello             
sceptic              scettico             
sceptru              scettro              
schematism           schematismo          
schismă              scisma               
sciatic              sciatico             
scintilație          scintillazione       
sclav                schiavo              
sclavă               schiavo              
scolastic            scolastica           
scolastică           scolastica           
scolex               scolice              
scolie               scolio               
scorpion             scorpione            
scotie               scozia               
scrot                scroto               
scrupulozitate       scrupolosità         
sculptor             scultore             
sculptură            scultura             
scut                 scudo                
sebo                 sebo                 
sebum                sebo                 
secesiune            secessione           
secetă               siccità              
sechestra            sequestrare          
secret               segreto              
secretar             segretario           
secretară            segretario           
secreție             secrezione           
secrețiune           segreto              
sectă                setta                
sectant              settario             
sectantă             settario             
secție               sezione              
secțiune             sezione              
sector               settore              
secular              secolare             
secundi              secondo              
sedativ              sedativo             
sedentar             sedentario           
sedez                sedare               
sediment             sedimento            
sedimento            sedimento            
sedițios             sedizioso            
sedițiune            sedizione            
seduce               sedurre              
seducție             seduzione            
șef                  capo                 
segment              segmento             
segregație           segregazione         
selecție             selezione            
sema                 sema                 
semantic             semantica            
semantică            semantica            
semasiologie         semasiologia         
semestru             semestre             
seminal              seminale             
seminar              seminario            
senatoare            senatore             
senator              senatore             
sene                 sene                 
senil                senile               
senilia              senile               
sens                 senso                
sensibilitate        sensibilità          
sensor               sensore              
sensual              sensuale             
sentențios           sentenzioso          
sentimentalism       sentimentalismo      
senzor               sensore              
separabil            separabile           
separație            separazione          
separațiune          separazione          
separator            separatore           
septemvrie           settembre            
septic               settico              
septuagintă          settanta             
sepulcral            sepolcrale           
ser                  siero                
serafic              serafico             
serai                serraglio            
serenitate           serenità             
sergent              sergente             
șerif                sceriffo             
seră                 serra                
serpentin            serpentino           
servitudine          servitù              
servitute            servitù              
sesiune              sessione             
set                  set                  
seta                 set                  
sex                  sesso                
sexagesimal          sessagesimale        
sexual               sessuale             
sexy                 sexy                 
sferic               sferico              
sfincter             sfintere             
sfragistic           sfragistica          
sfragistică          sfragistica          
sica                 sica                 
sicofant             sicofante            
sideral              siderale             
siestă               siesta               
silabă               sillaba              
silabic              sillabico            
șiling               scellino             
silogism             sillogismo           
silvia               silvia               
simbolic             simbolico            
simbolică            simbolico            
șimi                 shimmy               
simoniac             simoniaco            
simplicitate         semplicità           
simplifica           semplificare         
simula               simulare             
simulacru            simulacro            
simulație            simulazione          
simun                simun                
sinapsă              sinapsi              
sinceritate          sincerità            
sincopă              sincope              
sindic               sindaco              
sindicalism          sindacalismo         
sindicalist          sindacalista         
sindicalistă         sindacalista         
sindrom              sindrome             
sinecdocă            sineddoche           
sinereză             sineresi             
singular             singolare            
singularitate        singolarità          
singur               singolo              
sinistra             sinistro             
sinistro             sinistro             
sinistru             sinistro             
sinodal              sinodale             
sinoptic             sinottico            
sinoptică            sinottico            
sintaxă              sintassi             
sintetic             sintetico            
sinucidere           suicidio             
sinucigàș            suicidio             
sinucigașă           suicidio             
sinuos               sinuoso              
sire                 sire                 
siringă              siringa              
sistolă              sistole              
sit                  sito                 
situlă               sito                 
sobrietate           sobrietà             
sobru                sobrio               
sociabil             socievole            
sofism               sofisma              
sofist               sofista              
sofistă              sofista              
solar                solare               
solari               solare               
solarizare           solarizzazione       
solear               soleo                
solemnitate          solennità            
solid                solido               
soliditate           solidità             
solipsism            solipsismo           
solubil              solubile             
soluție              soluzione            
soluțiune            soluzione            
somnambul            sonnambulo           
somnambulă           sonnambulismo        
somnolență           sonnolenza           
sondaj               sondaggio            
sondare              sonda                
sonda                sonda                
sonoritate           sonorità             
sopori               sopore               
sordid               sordido              
sosie                sosia                
șovinism             sciovinismo          
spațios              spazioso             
spatulă              spatola              
specialitate         specialità           
specios              specioso             
spectator            spettatore           
spectru              spettro              
speculație           speculazione         
speculațiune         speculazione         
spermă               sperma               
spinàl               spinale              
spinos               spinoso              
spiral               spirale              
spiritualitate       spiritualità         
splanhnic            splancnico           
splendid             splendido            
splendoare           splendore            
sponsor              sponsorizzare        
spontan              spontaneo            
sport                sport                
șprat                spratto              
sprint               sprint               
sprue                sprue                
stagflație           stagflazione         
stalactită           stalattite           
stamini              stame                
stare                stato                
stasimon             stasimo              
stater               statere              
staționar            stazionario          
statuă               stato                
statuar              statuario            
statuară             statuario            
statuie              statua               
status               stato                
staurolit            staurolite           
stază                stasi                
stearic              stearico             
stearină             stearina             
stelar               stellare             
stepă                steppa               
steril               sterile              
sterilitate          sterilità            
stetoscop            stetoscopio          
stigmă               stigma               
stigmat              stigma               
stigmati             stigma               
stilo                stilo                
stimul               stimolo              
stimula              stimolare            
stipendiŭ            stipendio            
stipul               stipe                
stipula              stipulare            
stipulație           stipulazione         
stipulațiune         stipulazione         
stoic                stoico               
stovaină             stovaină             
strangula            strangolare          
stratosferă          stratosfera          
stricnină            stricnina            
stridor              stridore             
strigil              strigile             
stromă               stroma               
structură            struttura            
stupid               stupido              
stupiditate          stupidità            
suav                 soave                
suave                soave                
suavitate            soavità              
subaltern            subalterno           
subiectiv            soggettivo           
subiectiva           soggettivo           
subjecțiune          soggetto             
sublimat             sublimare            
sublimitate          sublimità            
subrogație           surrogazione         
subsidiar            sussidiario          
substanță            sostanza             
substanțialitate     sostanzialità        
substantiv           sostantivo           
substituție          sostituzione         
subteran             sotterraneo          
subterfugiŭ          sotterfugio          
subtil               sottile              
subversiune          sovversione          
subversiv            sovversivo           
subzista             sussistere           
subzistență          sussistenza          
succesiune           successione          
succesoare           successore           
succesor             successore           
sucomba              soccombere           
sudamină             sudamina             
sufix                suffisso             
sufleu               souffle              
sufoca               soffocare            
sufragiŭ             suffragio            
sugera               suggerire            
suicid               suicidio             
sulfuric             solforico            
sultan               sultano              
sumac                sommacco             
superb               superbo              
superficial          superficiale         
superfluu            superfluo            
superior             superiore            
superioritate        superiorità          
superlativ           superlativo          
superstiție          superstizione        
superstițios         superstizioso        
supervizor           supervisore          
supinație            supinazione          
supinator            supinatore           
supoziție            supposizione         
suprafață            superficie           
suprarealism         surrealismo          
suprarenal           surrenale            
suprem               supremo              
supremație           supremazia           
suprima              sopprimere           
supurație            suppurazione         
surditate            sordità              
susceptibil          suscettibile         
suspans              suspense             
suspenda             sospendere           
suspens              suspense             
suspensie            sospensione          
susține              sostenere            
susținere            sostenere            
tabes                tabe                 
tabulare             tabulare             
tacit                tacito               
tactică              tattica              
tactil               tattile              
talamo               talamo               
talar                talare               
tâmplă               tempio               
tanca                tanca                
tandem               tandem               
tangent              tangente             
tangibil             tangibile            
tanin                tannino              
țânțar               zanzara              
tardi                tardi                
tarpan               tarpan               
tartrat              tartrato             
tatu                 tatu                 
tatua                tatuaggio            
tatuare              tatuaggio            
taxi                 taxi                 
taxie                taxi                 
taxis                taxi                 
tebaină              tebaina              
tegument             tegumento            
teism                teismo               
temperament          temperamento         
temperatură          temperatura          
templu               tempio               
temporal             temporale            
temporală            temporale            
temporalitate        temporalità          
tenie                tenia                
tensiune             tensione             
teocrație            teocrazia            
teoremă              teorema              
teorie               teoria               
teozofie             teosofia             
terapie              terapia              
terestru             terrestre            
teribil              terribile            
terier               terrier              
teritorial           territoriale         
teritoriu            territorio           
termen               termine              
terminație           terminazione         
terminațiune         terminazione         
termistor            termistore           
ternar               ternario             
terorism             terrorismo           
terorist             terrorista           
teroriza             terrorizzare         
terțiar              terziario            
testator             testatore            
testicul             testicolo            
tetanos              tetano               
tetrarh              tetrarca             
tetrarhie            tetrarchia           
teurg                teurgia              
teurgie              teurgia              
text                 testo                
thesis               tesi                 
tiară                tiara                
tibie                tibia                
tigru                tigre                
timus                timo                 
tinctură             tintura              
tiran                tiranno              
tirană               tiranno              
tiranic              tirannico            
tiristor             tiristore            
titan                titanio              
titlu                titolo               
titular              titolare             
toamnă               autunno              
togă                 toga                 
tolera               tollerare            
tolerabil            tollerabile          
toleranță            tolleranza           
tolu                 tolu                 
toluidină            toluidina            
tonsură              tonsura              
tonus                tono                 
topaz                topazio              
topos                topos                
torefiere            torrefazione         
torero               torero               
torid                torrido              
torpoare             torpore              
torsiune             torsione             
tortă                torta                
tortuos              tortuoso             
tortuozitate         tortuosità           
total                totale               
tracțiune            trazione             
tractor              trattore             
traiectorie          traiettoria          
tramvai              tram                 
transă               trance               
tranșare             tranciatura          
transcendent         trascendente         
transcendental       trascendentale       
transcrie            trascrivere          
transcripție         trascrizione         
transcripțiune       trascrizione         
tranșee              trincea              
transept             transetto            
transfera            trasferire           
transferare          trasferire           
transfigura          trasfigurare         
transforma           trasformare          
transformist         trasformista         
transfuziune         trasfusione          
transgresa           trasgredire          
transgresiune        trasgressione        
transgresor          trasgressore         
transit              transito             
translucid           traslucido           
transmigrație        trasmigrazione       
transmigrațiune      trasmigrazione       
transmisibil         trasmissibile        
transmisiune         trasmissione         
transmuta            trasmutare           
transmutație         trasmutazione        
transparent          trasparente          
transplanta          trapiantare          
transportare         trasporto            
transpoziție         trasposizione        
transpune            trasporre            
tranzacție           transazione          
tranziție            transizione          
trapez               trapezio             
traumatic            traumatico           
traumatologie        traumatologia        
tremor               tremore              
tren                 treno                
trenă                treno                
trepang              trepang              
trepidațiune         trepidazione         
triangular           triangolare          
tribologie           tribologia           
tribulație           tribolazione         
tribulațiune         tribolazione         
tribunal             tribunale            
tribunat             tribunato            
tribunician          tribunizio           
tribut               tributo              
trichiază            trichiasi            
tricliniŭ            triclinio            
tricolor             tricolore            
tricorn              tricorno             
trident              tridente             
trienal              triennale            
trienală             triennale            
trihotomic           tricotomia           
trilingv             trilingue            
trimestru            trimestre            
trinitate            trinità              
triplu               triplo               
triptic              trittico             
triremă              trireme              
triumfa              trionfo              
triumfal             trionfale            
triunghiular         triangolare          
trofic               trofico              
trombus              trombo               
tron                 trono                
tropicalizare        tropicalizzazione    
trubadur             trovatore            
trucă                trucco               
truculent            truculento           
truculență           truculento           
truism               truismo              
tub                  tubo                 
tubă                 tuba                 
tubercul             tubercolo            
tubul                tubo                 
tumefia              tumefare             
tumoare              tumore               
tumul                tumulo               
tumult               tumulto              
tundră               tundra               
tunel                tunnel               
tunicat              tunicato             
tunicier             tunicati             
turbid               torbido              
turbină              turbina              
turbulent            turbolento           
turbulență           turbolenza           
tuși                 tossire              
tutu                 tutu                 
tweed                tweed                
ubicuitate           ubiquità             
ulcerație            ulcerazione          
ulnă                 ulna                 
ultimatum            ultimatum            
ultramontanism       ultramontanismo      
umanitate            umanità              
umbo                 umbone               
umilit               umile                
umilitate            umiltà               
umor                 umorismo             
umorist              umorista             
umoristă             umorista             
una                  uno                  
unanimitate          unanimità            
uncie                oncia                
unda                 onda                 
ungŭent              unguento             
unicorn              unicorno             
uniform              uniforme             
uniformă             uniforme             
uniformitate         uniformità           
unitate              unità                
universalitate       universalità         
universitate         università           
unu                  uno                  
unul                 uno                  
uraeus               ureo                 
uragan               uragano              
urbanitate           urbanità             
urnă                 urna                 
usca                 asciugare            
uscat                asciugare            
usuc                 asciugare            
uter                 utero                
uterin               uterino              
util                 utile                
utila                utile                
utilitate            utilità              
uvulă                ugola                
uzucapiune           usucapione           
uzufructuar          usufruttuario        
uzufructuară         usufruttuario        
uzurpa               usurpare             
uzurpator            usurpatore           
vaccină              vaccino              
vacuolă              vacuolo              
vag                  vago                 
vagin                vagina,              
vagină               vagina               
vago                 vago                 
valeriană            valeriana            
valgus               valgo                
valid                valido               
validitate           validità             
valon                vallone              
vals                 valzer               
valvulă              valvola              
vampir               vampiro              
vampirism            vampirismo           
vână                 vena                 
vandalism            vandalismo           
vanitate             vanità               
vapori               vapore               
vaporiza             vaporizzare          
vaporos              vaporoso             
variabil             variabile            
variabilă            variabile            
variație             variazione           
variațiune           variazione           
varicelă             varicella            
varia                variare              
varietate            varietà              
vario                vario                
variolă              vaiolo               
vasal                vassallo             
vâsc                 vischio              
vascular             vascolare            
vaselină             vaselina             
vastitate            vastità              
vectoare             vettore              
vector               vettore              
vegeta               vegetare             
vegetație            vegetazione          
vehemență            veemenza             
vehicul              veicolo              
vehiculare           veicolare            
velarium             velario              
veleitate            vela                 
venal                venale               
venalitate           venalità             
vendetta             vendetta             
venerabil            venerabile           
venos                venoso               
ventila              ventilare            
ventilare            ventilazione         
ventral              ventrale             
ventricul            ventricolo           
ventriloc            ventriloquo          
ventrilocă           ventriloquo          
venulă               venulă               
verb                 verbo                
verbal               verbale              
verbalism            verbalismo           
verbozitate          verbosità            
verdict              verdetto             
vernal               vernale              
versificațiune       versificazione       
versiune             versione             
verso                verso                
vertical             verticale            
verticală            verticale            
verucă               verruca              
vestală              vestale              
vestibul             vestibolo            
vestigiŭ             vestigio             
veteran              veterano             
veterană             veterano             
veto                 veto                 
vezică               vescica              
veziculă             vescicola            
vibice               vibice               
vibra                vibrare              
vicinal              vicinale             
victimă              vittima              
victoria             vittoria             
victorios            vittorioso           
vigilență            vigilanza            
vigonie              vigogna              
vilă                 villa                
vindicativ           vendicativo          
vinietă              vignetta             
virago               virago               
virga                virga                
virginitate          verginità            
virgulă              virgola              
viril                virile               
virilitate           virilità             
virulent             virulento            
virulență            virulenza            
virus                virus                
viscero              viscerale            
vîscos               viscoso              
vital                vitale               
vitalitate           vitalità             
vitamină             vitamina             
vitros               vitreo               
vituperare           vituperare           
vivacitate           vivacità             
vizibil              visibile             
vizigot              visigoto             
vizionar             visionario           
vizir                visir                
vizitare             visita               
vizita               visitare             
voaierism            voyeurismo           
vocabulă             vocabolo             
vocabular            vocabolario          
vocal                vocale               
vocație              vocazione            
vocațiune            vocazione            
vocativ              vocativo             
voce                 voce                 
volant               volano               
volatiliza           volatilizzare        
volei                volley-ball          
voltaic              voltaico             
volubilitate         volubilità           
voluptate            voluttà              
voluptos             voluttuoso           
voluptuos            voluttuoso           
volvulus             volvolo              
vomer                vomere               
voracitate           voracità             
vulcanizare          vulcanizzazione      
vulgar               volgare              
vulgaritate          volgarità            
vulgata              vulgata              
vulnerabil           vulnerabile          
vulvă                vulva                
zambo                zambo                
zebu                 zebù                 
zeie                 dea                  
zel                  zelo                 
zeolit               zeolite              
zice                 dire                 
zigomă               zigomo               
zircon               zircone              
zodiac               zodiaco              
zootehnie            zootecnia            
zuav                 zuavo                
zuluș                zulu                 
