COGNATE PAIRS

ROMANIAN             PORTUGUESE           

a                    a                    
abac                 ábaco                
abacă                ábaco                
abandon              abandono             
abandona             abandonar            
abanos               ébano                
abatesă              abadessa             
abație               abadia               
abdica               abdicar              
abdominal            abdominal            
abdominoscopie       abdominoscopie       
abducție             abdução              
abducțiune           abdução              
aberant              aberrante            
aberație             aberração            
abhorare             abhorare             
abietin              abietina             
abil                 hábil                
abitație             habitação            
abject               abjeto               
abjura               abjurar              
ablacta              ablacta              
ablațiune            ablação              
ablativ              ablativo             
ablefarie            ablefarie            
ablega               ablega               
ablegat              ablegat              
abluțiune            ablução              
abnega               abnega               
abnegație            abnegação            
abnegațiune          abnegação            
aboli                abolir               
aboliționism         abolicionismo        
abominabil           abominável           
abominațiune         abominação           
aborigen             aborígene            
abortiv              abortivo             
abraziune            abrasão              
abraziv              abrasivo             
abrevia              abreviar             
abreviat             abreviado            
abreviatură          abreviatura          
abscons              abscons              
absent               ausente              
absență              ausência             
absenteism           absentismo           
absint               absinto              
absolutism           absolutismo          
absoluțiune          absoluto             
absolutoriu          absolutoriu          
absorbi              absorver             
absorbție            absorção             
absorpțiune          absorção             
abstenționism        abstencionismo       
abstenționist        abstencionista       
abstențiune          abstenção            
abstergent           abstergente          
abstinent            abstinente           
abstinență           abstinência          
abstracție           abstração            
abstracționism       abstracionismo       
abstracționist       abstracionista       
abstracțiune         abstração            
abstrage             abstrato             
abstrus              abstrusa             
absurd               absurdo              
abținea              absteve-se           
abunda               abundar              
abundant             abundante            
abundent             abundante            
abundență            abundância           
abuz                 abuso                
abuziv               abusivo              
ac                   agulha               
acacie               acácia               
academie             academia             
academic             acadêmico            
acantă               acanto               
accelera             acelerar             
accelerando          accelerando          
accelerat            acelerado            
accelerație          aceleração           
accelerațiune        aceleração           
accepta              aceitar              
acceptabil           aceitável            
acceptant            aceitando            
accesibil            acessível            
accesibilitate       acessibilidade       
accesoriu            acessório            
accident             acidente             
ace                  agulhas              
acetabul             acetábulo            
acetic               acético              
acetilenă            acetileno            
acetilenic           acetilênico          
aceton               acetona              
acetonă              acetona              
acetos               acético              
achiziție            aquisição            
achizițiune          aquisição            
achizitiv            aquisitivo           
acid                 ácido                
acidimetru           acidimetru           
acido                ácido                
acin                 acinus               
aclama               aclamar              
aclamație            aclamação            
aclimatare           aclimatare           
aclimatiza           aclimatar            
aclimatizare         aclimatação          
acomoda              acomodar             
acomodat             acomodado            
acomodație           acomodatício         
acomodațiune         acomodatício         
aconit               acônito              
acordeon             acordeão             
acordeonist          acordeonista         
acordeonistă         acordeonista         
acosmism             acosmism             
acrescent            acrescent            
acrilic              acrílico             
acroamatic           acroamatic           
acrobat              acrobata             
acrobată             acrobata             
acrofobie            acrofobia            
acrolit              acrolit              
acromanie            acromanie            
acromatină           acromatină           
acromatism           acromatismo          
acromatiza           acromatiza           
acromatizare         acromatizare         
acromatopsie         acromatopsie         
acromegalie          acromegalia          
acromelalgie         acromelalgie         
acropolă             acrópole             
acropole             acrópole             
acta                 acta                 
actant               actante              
actinometru          actinometru          
actinomorf           actinomorfe          
actinopterigian      actinopterigian      
actinoterapie        actinoterapie        
acțiune              ação                 
activ                ativo                
activa               ativar               
activism             ativismo             
activist             ativista             
activistă            ativista             
activitate           atividade            
actor                ator                 
actual               atual                
actuar               atuário              
acuaforte            acuaforte            
aculeiform           aculeiform           
aculeu               aculeu               
aculturație          aculturação          
acumetrie            acumetrie            
acumula              acumular             
acupla               acupla               
acustic              acústico             
acut                 agudo                
acuzativ             acusativo            
acvaplanare          aquaplaning          
acvariu              aquário              
acvatic              aquático             
acvatintă            acvatinta            
acvilă               águia                
acvilin              aquilino             
adagiu               adágio               
adamantin            adamantino           
adamantină           adamantino           
adapta               adaptar-se           
addendum             adendo               
adecvație            adequação            
adelfo               adelfo               
adenită              adenitis             
adenom               adenoma              
adera                aderir               
aderent              aderente             
adeziune             adesão               
adiacent             adjacente            
adiție               adição               
adițional            adicional            
aditiv               aditivo              
adjacent             adjacente            
adjectiv             adjetivo             
adjutant             ajudante             
adjuvant             adjuvante            
administrație        administração        
administrațiune      administração        
administrativ        administrativo       
administrator        administrador        
admira               admirar              
admirație            admiração            
admirațiune          admiração            
admirator            admirador            
admite               admitir              
admisiune            admissão             
admonesta            admoestar            
adnat                adnat                
adolescent           adolescente          
adolescență          adolescentes         
adopta               adotar               
adopție              adoção               
adoptiv              adotivo              
adora                adorar               
adorabil             adorável             
adorare              adorar               
adorator             adorador             
aducțiune            adução               
aductor              adutor               
adulație             adulação             
adulațiune           adulação             
adult                adulto               
adulter              adultério            
adultera             adúltera             
adulterin            adulterino           
adulteriŭ            adulteriŭ            
advecție             advecção             
advent               advento              
adventism            adventism            
adventist            adventista           
adventizm            adventizm            
adverb               advérbio             
adverbial            adverbial            
advers               adverso              
adversar             adversário           
adversară            adversário           
adversativ           adversativo          
adversitate          adversidade          
aediculă             edícula              
aerobuz              aerobuz              
aerodinamic          aerodinâmico         
aeronaut             aeronauta            
aeronaută            aeronauta            
aeronavă             aeronave             
aeroscop             aeroscope            
aerosol              aerossol             
aerostat             aeróstato            
aerostatic           aerostático          
aerostatică          aerostática          
aerostație           aerostação           
afabil               afável               
afabilitate          afabilidade          
afecta               afetar               
afectare             afetando             
afectație            afetação             
afecțiune            afeição              
afectiv              afetivo              
afectuos             afetuoso             
afeliŭ               afélio               
aferent              aferente             
afereză              aférese              
aficionado           aficionado           
afinitate            afinidade            
afirmație            afirmação            
afirmațiune          afirmação            
afirmativ            afirmativo           
afix                 afixo                
aflicțiune           aflições             
afluent              afluente             
afluență             afluência            
afonie               afonia               
aforism              aforismo             
african              africano             
afrodiziac           afrodisíaco          
aftă                 aftas                
afuziune             afusão               
agavă                agave                
agave                agave                
agent                agente               
agil                 ágil                 
agile                ágil                 
agilitate            agilidade            
agitație             agitação             
agitațiune           agitação             
agitato              agitato              
agitatoare           agitadores           
agitator             agitador             
aglomera             aglomerado           
aglutinant           aglutinante          
agogică              agógicas             
agonie               agonia               
agonist              agonista             
agonistic            agonístico           
agonistică           agonístico           
agorafobie           agorafobia           
agrafie              agrafia              
agravant             agravante            
agravare             agravamento          
agregare             agregação            
agresiune            agressão             
agresiv              agressivo            
agresor              agressor             
agricol              agrícola             
agricola             agrícola             
agricultoare         agricultor           
agricultor           agricultor           
agricultură          agricultura          
agrimensor           agrimensor           
agripnie             agripnie             
agrologie            agrology             
agronom              agrônomo             
agronometrie         agronometrie         
agronomic            agronômico           
agronomie            agronomia            
airbag               airbag               
airbus               airbus               
aisberg              icebergue            
al                   o                    
alabastru            alabastro            
alanină              alanina              
alarmă               alarme               
alarmare             alarmante            
alarmat              alarmado             
albedo               albedo               
albugo               albugo               
album                álbum                
albumeală            álbuns               
albumină             albumina             
albuminurie          albuminúria          
alcarazas            alcarazas            
aldehidă             aldeído              
aleatoriu            aleatório            
alegație             alegação             
alegoric             alegórico            
alegorie             alegoria             
alergic              alérgico             
alergie              alergia              
aleurometru          aleurometru          
alexandrin           alexandrino          
alfa                 alfa                 
alfabet              alfabeto             
alfenid              alfenid              
algă                 alga                 
algebră              álgebra              
algic                álgico               
alia                 aliado               
alianță              aliança              
aliat                aliado               
alibi                álibi                
aliena               alienar              
alienat              alienado             
alienist             alienista            
alienistă            alienista            
aliment              alimento             
alios                alios                
aliterație           aliteração           
aliterațiune         aliteração           
alizarină            alizarina            
allegro              allegro              
aloe                 aloés                
aloetic              aloetic              
alohton              alóctone             
alomorf              alomorf              
alopatie             alopatia             
alopatric            alopátrico           
alopecie             alopecia             
aloplastică          alloplastic          
alotrio              alotrio              
alotriofagie         alotriofagie         
alotrofic            alotrofic            
alotropie            alopátrico           
alpaca               alpaca               
alpin                alpino               
alpinist             alpinista            
alpinistă            alpinista            
altera               alterar              
alterație            alteração            
alteritate           alteridade           
alternativă          alternativa          
altul                outro                
altruism             altruísmo            
altruist             altruísta            
aluminiu             alumínio             
aluminotermie        aluminothermics      
alungi               alongar              
alunit               alunite              
aluvionar            aluvial              
aluvionare           aluvial              
alveolă              alvéolo              
amalgam              amálgama             
amanita              amanita              
amant                amante               
amantă               amante               
amar                 amargo               
amarant              amaranto             
amator               amador               
amauroză             amaurose             
ambalare             embalagem            
ambasadă             embaixada            
ambasador            embaixador           
ambiant              ambiente             
ambidextru           ambidestro           
ambigen              ambigen              
ambiguu              ambíguo              
ambiguitate          ambiguidade          
ambiție              ambição              
ambițios             ambicioso            
ambițiune            ambição              
ambră                âmbar                
ambrozie             ambrósia             
ambulanță            ambulância           
ambulatoriu          ambulatório          
ameliorare           melhoria             
amenitate            amenidade            
amenomanie           amenomanie           
ametist              ametista             
amfibologie          anfibologia          
amfimacru            amfimacru            
amfiprostil          amfiprostil          
amfiteatru           anfiteatro           
amforă               ânfora               
amiant               amianto              
amibă                ameba                
amic                 amigo                
amidol               amidol               
amigdală             amígdala             
amigdalectomie       amigdalectomia       
amigdalotom          amigdalotom          
amnicol              amnicol              
amnios               amnion               
amonit               amonite              
amor                 amor                 
amorf                amorfo               
amovibilitate        amovibilidade        
ampelologie          ampelologie          
ampenaj              empenagem            
amper                ampére               
amplifica            amplificar           
amplificator         amplificador         
amplu                amplo                
amputa               amputar              
amputație            amputação            
amputațiune          amputação            
amulet               amuleto              
amuletă              amuleto              
ana                  ana                  
anabaptism           anabatismo           
anabolism            anabolismo           
anacolut             anacolut             
anacuzie             anacuzie             
anadiploză           anadiploză           
anafilaxie           anafilaxia           
anaforă              anáfora              
anageneză            anageneză            
anagogic             anagógica            
anahoret             anacoreta            
anahoretă            anacoreta            
anale                anais                
analepsie            analepsie            
analeptic            analéptico           
analgezic            analgésico           
analgezie            analgesia            
analist              analista             
analistă             analista             
analitic             analítico            
analiză              análise              
analog               análogo              
analogic             analógico            
analogie             analogia             
analogon             analogon             
anamneză             anamnese             
anamorfoză           anamorfose           
anapest              anapesto             
anarhie              anarquia             
anartrie             anartrie             
anasarcă             anasarca             
anastatic            anastáticas          
anastomoză           anastomoses          
anatemă              anátema              
anatocism            anatocismo           
anatomie             anatomia             
ancestral            ancestral            
ancoră               âncora               
ancoraj              ancoragem            
andabat              andabat              
andosa               endossar             
andosament           endosso              
androceu             androceu             
androfilie           androfilie           
androfobie           androfobie           
android              andróide             
andropauză           andropausa           
anecdotă             anedota              
anemonă              anêmona              
anemotrop            anemotrop            
anestezie            anestesia            
anevrism             aneurisma            
anex                 anexo                
anexă                anexo                
anexionism           anexionism           
anexiune             anexação             
anfibologie          anfibologie          
angelic              angélico             
angelică             angélico             
angelus              angelus              
anghilă              enguia               
anghină              angina               
angină               angina               
anglican             anglicano            
anglicism            anglicismo           
angrenaj             engrenagem           
angular              angular              
angusticlav          angusticlav          
anihila              aniquilar            
anima                animar               
animal               animal               
animalcul            animalcul            
animalitate          animalidade          
animație             animação             
animațiune           animação             
animism              animismo             
animist              animista             
animizm              animizm              
animozitate          animosidade          
anis                 anis                 
anison               anis                 
aniversar            aniversário          
aniversară           aniversário          
aniversare           aniversário          
anizofil             anizofil             
anizogamie           anizogamie           
anizometropie        anizometropie        
anoftalmie           anoftalmia           
anomal               anômalo              
anomalie             anomalia             
anonim               anônimo              
anopsie              anopsie              
anorexie             anorexia             
anormal              anormal              
anosmie              anosmia              
anoxemie             anoxemie             
antagonic            antagônico           
antagonism           antagonismo          
antanaclază          antanaclază          
antanagogă           antanagogă           
ante                 ante                 
antecedent           antecedente          
antecliză            antecliză            
antemeridian         antemeridiano        
antepenultim         antepenúltimo        
anteră               antera               
anterior             anterior             
anteză               antese               
anti                 anti                 
antic                antigo               
antică               antigo               
anticar              antiquário           
antichitate          antiguidade          
anticiclon           anticiclone          
anticipație          antecipação          
anticipațiune        antecipação          
antidot              antídoto             
antigraf             antigraf             
antilogie            antilogia            
antilopă             antílope             
antimetalepsă        antimetalepsă        
antimetateză         antimetateză         
antimoniu            antimônio            
antinomie            antinomia            
antiparastază        antiparastază        
antipatie            antipatia            
antipirină           antipirina           
antipod              antípoda             
antiqua              antiqua              
antirabic            raiva                
antisepsie           anti-sepsia          
antispasmodic        antiespasmódico      
antistrofă           antistrophe          
antiteză             antítese             
antologie            antologia            
antonomasie          antonomasie          
antonomază           antonomásia          
antorism             antorism             
antrax               antraz               
antricot             entrecosto           
antropo              antropológica        
antropoid            antropóide           
antropologie         antropologia         
antropometrie        antropometria        
antropopitec         antropopitec         
antropozoic          antropozoic          
antru                antru                
anual                anualmente           
anuală               anual                
anunța               anunciar             
anunțare             anunciando           
anus                 ânus                 
anxietate            ansiedade            
aorist               aoristo              
aortă                aorta                
apagogic             apagogic             
apanagiu             apanagiu             
aparență             aparência            
apartament           apartamento          
apatie               apatia               
apeduct              aqueduto             
apela                apelar               
apelațiune           apelação             
apendice             apêndice             
apendicular          apendicular          
aperitiv             aperitivo            
apertură             abertura             
apetit               apetite              
apetiție             apetite              
apetițiune           apetite              
apical               apical               
apicoliză            apicoliză            
apicultoare          apicultor            
apicultor            apicultor            
apicultură           apicultura           
apiol                apiol                
aplauda              aplaudir             
aplaudare            aplaudir             
aplauze              aplauso              
aplică               aplicar              
aplicație            aplicação            
aplicațiune          aplicação            
apocalips            apocalipse           
apocatastază         apocatastasis        
apocopă              apócope              
apocrif              apócrifo             
apodioxis            apodioxis            
apofiză              apófise              
apofonie             apofonia             
apolog               apólogo              
apologetic           apologético          
apologetică          apologética          
apoplectic           apoplético           
apoplexie            apoplexia            
aporie               aporia               
aposiopeză           aposiopeză           
apostat              apóstata             
apostazie            apostasia            
apostilă             apostila             
apostolat            apostolado           
apostolic            apostólico           
apostrof             apóstrofo            
apostrofă            apóstrofo            
apoteoză             apoteose             
apoteozare           apoteozare           
apoziție             aposição             
apozițiune           aposição             
aprecia              apreciar             
apreciat             apreciado            
aprehenda            aprehenda            
aprehensiune         apreensão            
aprețuire            apreţuire            
april                abril                
apriorism            apriorismo           
apriorist            apriorísticos        
aproba               aprovar              
apropria             apropriaram          
aproximare           aproximação          
arab                 árabe                
arabă                árabe                
arabil               arável               
aratoriu             aratoriu             
arbitra              arbitrar             
arbitraj             arbitragem           
arbitral             arbitral             
arbitrar             arbitrário           
arbitru              árbitro              
arborescent          arborescente         
arboricid            arboricid            
arboricultură        arboricultura        
arbovirus            arbovírus            
arbuscul             arbuscul             
arbust               arbusto              
arcă                 arca                 
arcanul              arcano               
archebuză            arcabuz              
arcosolium           arcossólio           
arctic               ártico               
arctica              ártico               
ardent               ardente              
ardezie              ardósia              
ardoare              ardor                
arenă                arena                
areolă               aréola               
areometru            areômetro            
areopag              areópago             
argentifer           argentífero          
argilă               argila               
argilifer            argilifer            
argilos              argiloso             
arginină             arginina             
argon                argão                
argonaut             argonauta            
argument             argumento            
argumenta            argumentar           
argumentație         argumentação         
arguție              arguta               
arhaic               arcaico              
arhipelag            arquipélago          
arhitect             arquiteto            
arhitectă            arquiteto            
arhitectonic         arquitetônico        
arhitectură          arquitetura          
arhitravă            arquitrave           
arhivă               arquivo              
arhivoltă            arquivoltas          
arici                ouriço               
arid                 árido                
arioso               arioso               
aristă               aresta               
aristocrație         aristocracia         
aritenoid            aritenóide           
aritmetică           aritmética           
aritmogrif           aritmogrif           
aritmologie          aritmologie          
aritmomanie          aritmomanie          
aritmometru          aritmômetro          
arlechin             arlequim             
armă                 arma                 
armat                armado               
armator              armador              
armătură             armadura             
armonie              harmonia             
armonic              harmônico            
armoniu              harmônio             
armorial             armorial             
armură               armadura             
arnică               arnica               
aroga                arrogar-se           
arogant              arrogante            
aroganță             arrogância           
arpegiu              arpejo               
arsenal              arsenal              
arsenic              arsênico             
arsenicism           arsenicismo          
artă                 arte                 
arteră               artéria              
arterial             arterial             
artezian             artesiano            
articol              artigo               
articula             articular            
articular            articular            
articulat            articular            
articulație          articulação          
articulațiune        articulação          
artificial           artificial           
artificiu            artifício            
artilerie            artilharia           
artizan              artesão              
artizanat            artesanato           
artralgie            artralgia            
artrită              artrite              
artritic             artrítico            
artrodinie           artrodinie           
artrologie           artrologie           
artropatie           artropatia           
artroplastie         artroplastia         
artropod             artrópode            
artrotomie           artrotomie           
as                   ás                   
asasin               assassino            
asasină              assassino            
asasinat             assassinato          
ascendent            ascendente           
ascensiune           ascensão             
ascidie              ascídia              
asclepiad            asclepiadea          
asclepiade           asclepiadea          
asclepiadul          asclepiadea          
ascultat             escutou              
asesor               assessor             
asfalt               asfalto              
asfixie              asfixia              
asiatic              asiático             
asiduitate           assiduidade          
asiduu               assiduamente         
asimetrie            assimetria           
asimila              assimilar            
asimilație           assimilação          
asimilațiune         assimilação          
asimptotă            assimptota           
asindeton            asindeton            
asonant              assonante            
asparagus            espargos             
aspect               aspecto              
aspira               aspirar              
aspirant             aspirante            
aspirantă            aspirante            
aspirat              aspirar              
assai                assai                
assembler            assembler            
ăsta                 este                 
astatin              astato               
astatiniu            astato               
asteism              asteism              
astenia              astenia              
astenie              astenia              
astenopie            astenopia            
aster                áster                
asterisc             asterisco            
asteroid             asteróide            
astmă                asma                 
astmatic             asmático             
astragal             astrágalo            
astral               astral               
astrolog             astrólogo            
astrologă            astrologia           
astrologic           astrológico          
astrologie           astrologia           
astrometrie          astrometry           
astronaut            astronauta           
astronaută           astronauta           
astronautică         astronáutica         
astronom             astrônomo            
astronomă            astronomia           
astronomic           astronômico          
astronomie           astronomia           
astroscop            astroscop            
astuție              astuto               
astuțios             astuţios             
asuda                suar                 
asudat               suado                
asuma                assumir              
atare                tal                  
atavism              atavismo             
ataxie               ataxia               
ateu                 ateu                 
ateism               ateísmo              
ateist               ateístico            
atelană              atelană              
atelane              atelane              
atelectazie          atelectasia          
atenție              atenção              
atenuant             atenuantes           
atenuat              atenuar              
aterom               ateroma              
atesta               atestar              
atestațiune          atestação            
aticism              aticismo             
atitudine            atitude              
atlet                atleta               
atletă               atleta               
atletic              atlético             
atmo                 atmosférico          
atmofil              atmofil              
atmoliză             atmoliză             
atol                 atol                 
atom                 átomo                
atomism              atomismo             
atomist              atomista             
atomistic            atomístico           
atomistică           atomístico           
atotputernic         onipotente           
atotputernicie       onipotência          
atotputernicul       onipotente           
atracție             atração              
atracțiune           atração              
atrepsie             atrepsie             
atribui              atribuir             
atribut              atributo             
atribuție            atribuição           
atribuțiune          atribuição           
atrio                atrio                
atriu                átrio                
atrium               átrio                
atroce               atroz                
atrocitate           atrocidade           
atrofie              atrofia              
atropină             atropina             
audia                ouvir                
audibil              audível              
audiție              audição              
auditor              auditor              
augmenta             aumentar             
augmentare           aumento              
august               agosto               
augusta              augusta              
augustal             agosto               
aulodie              aulodie              
aură                 aura                 
auricular            auricular            
aurifer              aurífero             
auripigment          auripigment          
auroră               aurora               
ausculta             ausculta             
auscultație          auscultação          
auscultațiune        auscultação          
auspiciu             auspícios            
auster               austero              
austeritate          austeridade          
austral              austral              
austru               austru               
autentic             autêntico            
autism               autismo              
autoare              autora               
autobiografie        autobiografia        
autoclavă            autoclave            
autocrat             autocrata            
autocrație           autocracia           
autodidact           autodidata           
autofagie            autofágica           
autogamie            autogamia            
autogeneză           autogênese           
autograf             autógrafo            
autohton             autóctone            
autoliză             autólise             
automat              automático           
automobilism         automobilismo        
autonom              autônomo             
autonomism           autonomismo          
autonomist           autonomista          
autor                autor                
autoritarism         autoritarismo        
autoritate           autoridade           
autoterapie          autoterapie          
autotomie            autotomy             
autumnal             outonal              
auxiliar             auxiliar             
auxiliu              auxiliu              
auxină               auxinas              
avans                avançar              
avansa               avançar              
avantaj              vantagem             
avantaja             vantagem             
avantajos            vantajoso            
avariție             avareza              
avatar               avatar               
avenida              avenida              
aventură             aventura             
aventurin            aventurina           
aventurină           aventurina           
aversiune            aversão              
aviație              aviação              
avid                 ávido                
avion                avião                
avionetă             avioneta             
avirulent            avirulent            
avocat               advogado             
avocată              advogado             
avort                aborto               
avorta               abortar              
avulsiune            avulsão              
avunculat            avunculat            
ax                   eixo                 
axă                  eixo                 
axial                axial                
axilă                axila                
axiologie            axiologia            
axiomă               axioma               
axis                 eixo                 
axunge               axunge               
axungie              axungie              
azalee               azaléa               
azil                 asilo                
azimut               azimute              
azotemie             azotemia             
babilonic            babilônico           
babuin               babuíno              
bacă                 baga                 
bacanal              bacanal              
bacanală             bacanal              
bacanale             bacanal              
bacantă              bacante              
bacante              bacante              
bacara               bacará               
bacifer              baga                 
bacil                bacilo               
bacon                bacon                
bacterie             bactéria             
bacterioliză         bacterioliză         
bacteriologic        bacteriológica       
bacteriologie        bacteriologia        
bacteriostatic       bacteriostático      
badminton            badminton            
bagaj                bagagem              
bagatelă             bagatela             
baie                 banheiro             
baionetă             baioneta             
baladă               balada               
balast               lastro               
balata               balata               
balerină             bailarina            
balet                balé                 
balistă              ballista             
balnear              balneário            
balneoterapie        balneoterapia        
balon                balão                
balotaj              ballotage            
balsam               bálsamo              
balsamină            balsamina            
balustru             balaustrada          
banaliza             banalizar            
banalizare           banalização          
banchet              banquete             
banda                banda                
bandaj               bandagem             
bandit               bandido              
bar                  bar                  
baraj                barragem             
barbar               bárbaro              
barbarie             barbárie             
barbiturism          barbiturism          
barcarolă            barcarola            
bard                 bardo                
baricentru           baricentro           
barisferă            barisferă            
bariu                bário                
barometru            barômetro            
baron                barão                
baronet              baronete             
baroscop             baroscópio           
baset                bassê                
basidiomicetă        basidiomicetos       
bastion              bastião              
batalion             batalhão             
baterie              bateria              
batimetru            batimetru            
batiscaf             batiscafo            
batisferă            batisferă            
batologie            batologie            
bazar                bazar                
bazofil              basófilos            
beat                 bêbado               
beatific             beatífico            
beatifica            beatificar           
beeper               beeper               
begonie              begônia              
bej                  bege                 
beladonă             beladona             
belemnit             belemnites           
belicism             belicism             
belicist             belicist             
belicos              belicoso             
beligerant           beligerante          
beligeranță          beligerância         
belinograf           belinograf           
belinogramă          belinogramă          
belonofobie          belonofobie          
benefic              benéfico             
beneficiar           beneficiário         
beneficiară          beneficiário         
beneficiu            beneficiar           
benevolență          benevolência         
benign               benigno              
bentos               bentos               
bergamotă            bergamota            
beril                berilo               
bestial              bestial              
bestie               besta                
bibliofag            bibliofag            
bibliofil            bibliófilo           
bibliograf           bibliógrafo          
bibliografia         bibliografia         
bibliografie         bibliografia         
bibliologie          bibliology           
bibliomanie          bibliomania          
bibliotecă           biblioteca           
bibliotecar          bibliotecário        
bibliotecară         bibliotecário        
biceps               bíceps               
bicuspid             bicúspide            
bideu                bidê                 
bienal               bienal               
bienală              bienal               
bifid                bifidate             
bifoliat             bifoliat             
bigam                bígamo               
bilă                 bílis                
bilateral            bilateral            
bilet                bilhete              
biliard              bilhar               
bilingv              bilíngüe             
bilios               bilioso              
bilocular            bilocular            
biloculare           biloculare           
bimestru             bimestru             
binar                binário              
binefăcător          benfeitor            
bingo                bingo                
binom                binômio              
biocenotic           biocenóticos         
biocenoză            biocenosis           
biodegradabil        biodegradável        
bioenergetic         bioenergética        
bioenergetică        bioenergética        
biogenetic           biogenética          
biogenetică          biogenética          
biogeneză            biogênese            
biogeografie         biogeografia         
bioglife             bioglife             
biograf              biógrafo             
biografie            biografia            
biografic            biográfico           
biologic             biológico            
biologie             biologia             
biopsie              biopsia              
biosferă             biosfera             
biosinteză           biossíntese          
biotaxie             biotaxie             
biotică              biótico              
biotop               biótopo              
bip                  bip                  
bipartiție           bipartição           
biped                bípede               
birocrat             burocrata            
birocrată            burocrático          
birocrație           burocracia           
bis                  bis                  
bisel                bissel               
bistrou              bistro               
bistru               bistru               
bitum                betume               
bitumen              betume               
bituminos            betuminoso           
biuretă              bureta               
biurocrat            biurocrat            
bivuac               bivaque              
bizantin             bizantino            
bizar                bizarro              
bizon                bisão                
blasfemia            blasfêmia            
blasfemie            blasfêmia            
blastemă             blastema             
blastoidee           blastoidee           
blastomicoză         blastomicose         
blastulă             blastula             
blazon               brasão               
blefarită            blefarite            
bloca                bloquear             
blues                blues                
bluză                blusa                
bluza                blusa                
boa                  boa                  
bobină               bobina               
bobina               bobina               
boccia               boccia               
boem                 boêmio               
bolero               bolero               
bolșevism            bolchevismo          
bombă                bomba                
bombastic            bombástico           
bonapartism          bonapartismo         
bonapartist          bonapartista         
bonetă               boné                 
bor                  boro                 
borax                bórax                
bordel               bordel               
boreal               boreal               
botanică             botânica             
botriocefal          botriocefal          
botrioidal           botrioidal           
botulism             botulismo            
bouar                boieiro              
bovarism             bovarysm             
bovin                bovino               
bovină               bovino               
bractee              brácteas             
bracteie             brácteas             
bradicardie          bradicardia          
bradifagie           bradifagie           
bradifazie           bradifazie           
bradilalie           bradilalie           
brahial              braquial             
brandy               brandy               
bregmă               bregma               
briantină            brilhantina          
bric                 brigue               
brigadă              brigada              
brie                 brie                 
briofite             briófitas            
briologie            bryologists          
briză                brisa                
brocart              brocado              
brocatel             brocatel             
broda                bordar               
bromoform            bromofórmio          
brontozaur           brontossauro         
bronz                bronze               
bronzare             bronzeamento         
broșă                broche               
bruceloză            brucelose            
brucină              brucină              
brut                 bruto                
brută                bruto                
brutal               brutal               
bubon                bubão                
bucale               boca                 
bucanier             bucanier             
buchet               buquê                
bucleu               bucleu               
bucolic              bucólico             
bucolică             bucólico             
bucraniu             bucraniu             
budincă              pudim                
budism               budismo              
budist               budista              
budoar               boudoir              
buduar               boudoir              
bufet                bufê                 
bulb                 bulbo                
bulbo                bulbo                
bulbos               bulboso              
bulbuci              bolhas               
buldog               buldogue             
bule                 bolhas               
bulimie              bulimia              
bulină               bolina               
bumerang             bumerangue           
bungalou             bangalô              
bungalov             bangalô              
burgrav              burgrav              
burin                buril                
burlesc              burlesco             
burlescă             burlesco             
busolă               bússola              
bust                 busto                
busuioc              manjericão           
busuiocul            manjericão           
butadienă            butadieno            
buton                botão                
cabală               cabala               
cabalină             cavalo               
cabalistic           cabalístico          
cabaret              cabaré               
cabinet              gabinete             
cabotaj              cabotagem            
cabotinaj            cabotinage           
cabriolă             cabriola             
cabriolet            cabriolé             
cabrioletă           cabriolé             
cacodilat            cacodilato           
cacolalie            cacolalie            
cacologie            cacologie            
cacosmie             cacosmie             
cactus               cacto                
cadastral            cadastral            
cadastrare           cadastro             
cadastru             cadastro             
cadaveric            cadavérico           
cadet                cadete               
cadru                quadro               
cadril               quadrilha            
cadrilater           quadrilátero         
caduc                caduco               
caduceu              caduceu              
caducifer            caducifer            
cafea                café                 
cafeină              cafeína              
cafeŭ                cafeŭ                
caiac                caiaque              
caiet                caderno              
caiman               caimão               
câine                cão                  
calamina             calamina             
calamus              cálamo               
calandra             calandra             
calandru             calandra             
călător              viajante             
călători             viajar               
călcâi               calcanhar            
calcaneu             calcâneo             
calcedonia           calcedônia           
calcedonie           calcedony            
călcîi               calcanhares          
calcinare            calcinação           
calcula              calcular             
calendar             calendário           
calende              calendas             
calibra              calibrar             
calibru              calibre              
caliciu              cálice               
califica             qualificar           
calificare           qualificação         
caligraf             calígrafo            
caligrafie           caligrafia           
caliptră             caliptră             
calitate             qualidade            
calitativ            qualitativo          
calm                 acalmá               
calma                acalmá               
calomnia             calúnia              
calomniator          caluniador           
calori               calorias             
caloric              calórico             
calorie              caloria              
calorific            calorífico           
calorimetric         calorimétrico        
calorimetrie         calorimetria         
calorimetru          calorímetro          
calos                caloso               
calvar               calvário             
calvariu             calvariu             
calviție             calvície             
camambert            camambert            
camarad              camarada             
camaradă             camarada             
camarilă             camarilha            
cameleon             camaleão             
cameral              câmara               
camfor               cânfora              
cămilă               camelo               
camion               caminhão             
câmp                 campo                
campană              campanha             
campani              campani              
campestru            campestru            
campimetru           campimetru           
camuflare            camuflar             
camuflet             camuflet             
canal                canal                
canale               canais               
canalicul            canalicul            
canalie              canalha              
canastă              canasta              
cancan               cancã                
cancelar             chanceler            
cancer               câncer               
cancroid             cancróide            
când                 quando               
candidat             candidato            
candidată            candidato            
caneforă             canéfora             
caneloni             canelone             
cangrenă             gangrena             
cangur               canguru              
canibal              canibal              
canibală             canibal              
canin                canino               
canon                cânone               
canonic              canônico             
canoniza             canonizar            
canonizare           canonização          
cânta                cantar               
cantabile            cantável             
cantaridă            cantárida            
cântat               de canto             
cantată              cantata              
cantilenă            cantilena            
cantină              cantina              
cantitate            quantidade           
canton               cantão               
cantonal             cantonal             
canțonetă            cançoneta            
cantor               cantor               
canulă               cânula               
capă                 capa                 
capacitate           capacidade           
căpățână             cabeça               
cape                 capa                 
capilar              capilar              
capital              capital              
capitală             capital              
capitat              capitato             
capitație            capitação            
capitațiune          capitação            
capitulare           capitulação          
capnomanție          capnomanţie          
capotă               capô                 
capotare             capotare             
capote               capô                 
capreolat            capreolat            
capri                capri                
capriciu             capricho             
caprin               caprino              
caproic              capróico             
capsulă              cápsula              
captație             captação             
captiv               cativo               
captiva              cativar              
capucin              capuchinho           
caracal              caracal              
caracteriza          caracterizar         
caracterizare        caracterização       
caramba              caramba              
carambol             carambola            
caramel              caramelo             
caramelă             caramelo             
carantină            quarentena           
carat                quilate              
carate               quilate              
caravană             caravana             
caravelă             caravela             
carbon               carbono              
carbonar             carbonário           
carbonic             carbônico            
carboniza            carbonizar           
carbonizare          carbonização         
carbuncul            carbúnculo           
carbură              carboneto            
carbura              carburar             
carburator           carburador           
carcinogeneză        carcinogênese        
cardamom             cardamomo            
cardialgie           cardialgie           
cardie               cárdia               
cardiectazie         cardiectazie         
cardinal             cardeal              
cardinale            cardeal              
cardinalist          cardinalista         
cardiotonic          cardiotônico         
carie                cárie                
cariatidă            cariátide            
caricatură           caricatura           
caricaturist         caricaturista        
caricaturistă        caricaturista        
carilon              carrilhão            
cariogamie           cariogamie           
cariolă              carriola             
cariologie           cariologia           
carismă              carisma              
carismatic           carismático          
caritate             caridade             
carjacking           carjacking           
carmaniolă           carmaniolă           
carmin               carmim               
carminativ           carminativo          
carnal               carnal               
carnalitate          carnalidade          
carnivor             carnívoro            
carolingian          carolíngio           
caroten              caroteno             
carotidă             carótida             
carp                 carpo                
carpelă              carpelo              
carpo                carpo                
cartel               cartel               
cartezian            cartesiano           
cartilaginos         cartilaginoso        
cartomancian         cartomancian         
carton               cartão               
cartuș               cartucho             
carusel              carrossel            
caseină              caseína              
caserolă             caçarola             
cașexie              caquexia             
cast                 casto                
castă                casta                
castan               castanha             
castană              castanha             
castel               castelo              
castelan             castelão             
castină              castine              
castitate            castidade            
castor               castor               
castoreŭ             castoreŭ             
castoreum            castóreo             
castra               castrar              
catabolism           catabolismo          
cataclism            cataclismo           
cataforeză           cataforese           
catafract            catafract            
catalectic           cataléctico          
catalepsie           catalepsia           
cataliză             catálise             
catalog              catálogo             
catamaran            catamarã             
cataplasmă           cataplasma           
cataplexie           cataplexia           
catapultă            catapultar           
catar                catarro              
cataractă            catarata             
catastrofă           catástrofe           
catatonie            catatonia            
cățea                cadela               
catechism            catecismo            
catedră              cadeira              
categoremă           categoremă           
categorie            categoria            
catehetic            catequética          
cateheză             catequese            
catehism             catecismo            
catenă               cadeia               
catetă               cateto               
cateter              cateter              
cateterism           cateterismo          
catetometru          catetometru          
catharsis            catarse              
catod                cátodo               
catolic              católico             
catonian             catonian             
caud                 caudal               
cauda                cauda                
caudal               caudal               
caudillism           caudilhismo          
cauli                cauli                
cauliflorie          cauliflorie          
caulocarp            caulocarp            
caustic              cáustico             
caustică             cáustico             
cauter               cautério             
cauteriŭ             cauteriŭ             
cauteriza            cauterizar           
cauză                causar               
cauzal               causal               
cauzalgie            causalgia            
cauza                causar               
cauzativ             causativo            
cavernă              caverna              
cavernicol           caverna              
cavernogramă         cavernogramă         
cavernos             cavernoso            
caviar               caviar               
cavicorn             cavicorn             
cavitate             cavidade             
cazac                cossaco              
cazeină              caseína              
cazinou              cassino              
cazual               casual               
cazuist              casuísta             
cearter              cearter              
cebocefalie          cebocefalie          
cecograf             cecograf             
cedent               cedente              
cedru                cedro                
cefalic              cefálico             
cefalometrie         cefalométrica        
cefalotomie          cefalotomie          
celadon              celadon              
celebra              celebrar             
celebritate          celebridade          
celenterat           celenterat           
celerimetru          celerimetru          
celeritate           celeridade           
celest               celestial            
celestă              celestial            
celibat              celibato             
celiotomie           celiotomie           
cella                cella                
celofan              celofane             
celul                célula               
celulă               célula               
celuloză             celulose             
celulozic            celulósico           
cement               cimento              
cementită            cementita            
cenestezie           cenestezie           
cenobit              cenobites            
cenotaf              cenotáfio            
cens                 censo                
censor               censor               
censorial            censório             
cent                 centavo              
centaur              centauro             
centauree            centauree            
centauri             centauros            
centenar             centenário           
centezimal           centesimal           
centi                centavos             
centiar              centiare             
centigram            centigrama           
centilitru           centilitre           
centimetru           centímetro           
centon               centon               
central              central              
centru               centro               
centri               centers              
centripet            centrípeto           
centum               centum               
centumvir            centumvir            
centumviral          centumviral          
centuplu             centuplu             
centurion            centurião            
cenzor               censor               
cenzură              censura              
ceramist             ceramista            
ceramistă            ceramista            
cereal               cereal               
cereală              cereal               
cerebel              cerebelo             
cerebral             cerebral             
cerebro              cerebro              
cerebroid            cerebróide           
cerebru              cerebru              
ceremonie            cerimônia            
ceremonial           cerimonial           
certifica            certificar           
ceruleu              ceruleu              
cerumen              cerume               
ceruză               cerusa               
cervical             cervical             
cervix               cerviz               
cesiu                césio                
cetacee              cetáceos             
cetaceu              cetáceo              
cetaceum             cetaceum             
cezură               cesura               
chalet               chalé                
chardonnay           chardonnay           
charismatic          carismático          
charleston           charleston           
chefir               kefir                
cheratită            ceratite             
chestor              questor              
chicinetă            kitchenette          
chietism             quietismo            
chil                 quilo                
chilă                quilha               
chimograf            chimograf            
chinestezie          cinestésica          
chineziologie        cinesiologia         
chintet              quinteto             
chioșc               quiosque             
chirurgie            cirurgia             
chist                cisto                
chit                 quite                
chitină              quitina              
chiuretaj            curetagem            
chulo                chulo                
cianhidric           cianeto              
cianină              cianină              
ciao                 ciao                 
ciborium             cibório              
cicatrice            cicatriz             
cicatriculă          cicatriculă          
cicerone             cicerone             
cicisbeu             cicisbeu             
ciclic               cíclico              
ciclism              ciclismo             
ciclist              ciclista             
ciclofrenie          ciclofrenie          
cicloid              ciclóide             
cicloidă             ciclóide             
ciclometru           ciclometru           
ciclon               ciclone              
ciclotimie           ciclotimia           
ciclu                ciclo                
cifoză               cifose               
ciliciu              ciliciu              
cilindri             cilindros            
cilindru             cilindro             
ciment               cimento              
cimitir              cemitério            
cimpanzeu            chimpanzé            
cinamom              cinamom              
cincinal             quinquenal           
cineast              cineasta             
cinemascop           cinemascópio         
cinematică           cinemática           
cinematograf         cinema               
cinerar              cinerário            
cinerară             cinerário            
cinetic              cinético             
cinetică             cinético             
cingulo              cíngulo              
cingulum             cíngulo              
cinic                cínico               
cinism               cinismo              
cinocefal            cinocefal            
cinofobie            cinofobie            
cinorexie            cinorexie            
cioară               corvo                
ciocolată            chocolate            
cipolin              cipolin              
ciprin               ciprin               
circ                 circo                
circuit              circuito             
circula              circular             
circular             circular             
circulară            circular             
circum               circum               
circumcide           circuncidar          
circumcizie          circuncisão          
circumciziune        circuncisão          
circumferență        circunferência       
circumferință        circunferência       
circumflex           circunflexo          
circumscrie          circunscrever        
circumspect          circunspecto         
circumspecție        circunspecção        
circumspecțiune      circunspecção        
circumstanță         circunstância        
circumvoluție        circunvolução        
cireș                cereja               
cirrus               cirro                
cirtometrie          cirtometrie          
cirus                cirro                
cisalpin             cisalpino            
cispadan             cispadan             
cistă                cista                
cistită              cistite              
cistostomie          cistostomia          
cistotom             cistotom             
cită                 citado               
citadelă             citadela             
cita                 citar                
citat                citar                
citologie            citologia            
citoplasmă           citoplasma           
citoplasmatic        citoplasmática       
citrin               citrina              
civic                cívico               
civil                civil                
civilitate           civilidade           
civiliza             civilizar            
civilizație          civilização          
civilizațiune        civilização          
civizm               civizm               
cladodiu             cladodiu             
clamare              clamari              
clan                 clã                  
clandestin           clandestino          
clarifica            esclarecer           
clarificare          esclarecimento       
clarinet             clarinete            
clarvăzător          clarividente         
clarviziune          clarividência        
clasă                classe               
clasic               clássico             
clastic              clástico             
clasto               clasto               
claudicație          claudicação          
claustr              claustro             
claustra             claustro             
claustrofobie        claustrofobia        
claustru             claustro             
clauzulă             clauzulă             
clav                 clav                 
claviculă            clavícula            
clavus               clavus               
clement              clemente             
clemență             clemência            
cler                 clero                
cleric               clérigo              
clerical             clerical             
clericalism          clericalismo         
client               cliente              
clientă              cliente              
clientelă            clientela            
climă                clima                
climacteriu          climatério           
climatism            climatism            
climatologic         climatológica        
climatologie         climatologia         
climatoterapie       climático            
climax               clímax               
clinic               clínico              
clinoterapie         clinoterapie         
clivaj               clivagem             
cloacă               cloaca               
clon                 clonar               
clor                 cloro                
cloroform            clorofórmio          
cloroforma           clorofórmio          
cloropren            chloroprene          
clorotic             cloróticas           
club                 clube                
cnemidă              cnemidă              
coabita              coabitar             
coacervație          coacervaţie          
coadjutor            coadjutor            
coagula              coagular             
coagulat             coagulado            
coagulațiune         coagulação           
coapsă               coxa                 
coarctație           coarctação           
coarcto              coarcto              
cobai                cobaia               
cobalt               cobalto              
cocaină              cocaína              
coccigo              coccigo              
coccigodinie         coccigodinie         
coccis               cóccix               
cochetărie           coquetaria           
cocotă               cocotte              
cocs                 coque                
codeină              codeína              
codifica             codificar            
coeficient           coeficiente          
coercibil            coercivo             
coerent              coerente             
coerență             coerência            
coeziune             coesão               
cofeturi             confeitaria          
cofraj               cofragem             
cognomen             cognome              
cognoscibil          conhecível           
cohlee               cóclea               
coincide             coincidir            
coincidere           coincidir            
coiot                coiote               
colabora             colaborar            
colaborare           colaboração          
colaj                colagem              
colaps               colapso              
colateral            colateral            
colaterală           colateral            
colecție             coleção              
colecțiune           coleção              
colectiv             coletivo             
colectivă            coletivo             
colectivism          coletivismo          
colectivist          coletivista          
colector             coletor              
coleg                colega               
colegă               colega               
colină               colina               
colir                colírio              
coliziune            colisão              
colli                colli                
coloană              coluna               
coloare              de cor               
colocviu             colóquio             
colodiu              colódio              
coloid               colóide              
colon                cólon                
colonadă             colunata             
colonel              coronel              
colonie              colônia              
color                cor                  
colori               cores                
colorist             colorista            
coloristă            colorista            
colos                colosso              
colostomie           colostomia           
colostru             colostro             
colposcopie          colposcopia          
colpotomie           colpotomie           
columbar             columbário           
columnă              coluna               
columnar             colunar              
coluviu              colúvio              
comă                 coma                 
comandant            comandante           
combina              combinar             
combină              combinar             
combinație           combinação           
combinațiune         combinação           
comburant            comburente           
comburent            comburente           
combustibil          combustível          
combustibilitate     combustibilidade     
combustie            combustão            
coma                 coma                 
comedian             comediante           
comedie              comédia              
comemora             comemorar            
comensurabil         comensurável         
comenta              comentar             
comentare            comentar             
comercial            comercial            
comerț               comércio             
comestibil           comestível           
cometă               cometa               
comic                cômico               
comis                cometido             
comisar              comissário           
comisoriu            comisoriu            
comisură             comissura            
comite               cometer              
comitet              comitê               
comiții              comiţii              
comodor              comodoro             
compact              compacto             
compacta             compacto             
compactor            compactador          
compara              comparar             
comparabil           comparável           
comparat             comparado            
comparație           comparação           
comparațiune         comparação           
comparativ           comparativo          
compars              compars              
compasiune           compaixão            
compatibil           compatível           
compatibilitate      compatibilidade      
compatrioată         compatriota          
compatriot           compatriota          
compendiu            compêndio            
compensa             compensar            
compensație          compensação          
compensațiune        compensação          
compensatoriu        compensatória        
competent            competente           
competență           competência          
competiție           competição           
compila              compilar             
compilație           compilação           
compilațiune         compilação           
compilatoare         compilador           
compilator           compilador           
complement           complementar         
complet              completamente        
completa             completar            
completiv            completivo           
completivă           completivo           
complex              complexo             
complexa             complexo             
complexiune          complexidade         
complica             complicar            
complicat            complicado           
complicație          complicação          
complicațiune        complicação          
compluviu            compluviu            
component            componente           
compot               compota              
compozit             composto             
compozită            composto             
compoziție           composição           
compozitoare         compositor           
compozitor           compositor           
comprehensibil       compreensível        
comprehensiune       compreensão          
comprehensiv         compreensivo         
compresibil          compressível         
compresiune          compressiva          
compresor            compressor           
comprima             comprimir            
compulsare           compulsare           
compulsie            compulsão            
compune              compor               
computație           computação           
comun                comum                
comună               comuna               
comunal              comunal              
comuneros            comuneros            
comunica             comunicar            
comunicabil          comunicável          
comunicant           comungante           
comunicat            comunicado           
comunicație          comunicação          
comunicațiune        comunicação          
comunicativ          comunicativo         
comunism             comunismo            
comunist             comunista            
comunitate           comunidade           
comuniune            comunhão             
comutație            comutação            
con                  cone                 
conativ              conative             
concă                concha               
concatenație         concatenação         
concav               côncavo              
concavitate          concavidade          
concede              conceder             
concepe              conceber             
concept              conceito             
conceptacul          conceptacul          
concepție            concepção            
concepțiune          concepção            
conceptual           conceptual           
concert              concerto             
concerto             concerto             
concesie             concessão            
concesionar          concessionário       
concesiune           concessão            
concesiv             concessivo           
conchi               conchi               
conchide             concluir             
conchidere           concluir             
conchită             concha               
concilia             conciliar            
conciliațiune        conciliação          
conciliator          conciliador          
concis               conciso              
conclav              conclave             
conclude             concluir             
conclusum            conclusum            
concluzie            conclusão            
concomitant          concomitante         
concomitent          concomitante         
concordat            concordata           
concordia            concordia            
concordie            concórdia            
concrețiune          concreção            
concubină            concubina            
concupiscent         concupiscente        
concupiscență        concupiscência       
concurent            concorrente          
condamna             condenar             
condamnat            condenar             
condensa             condensar            
condensat            condensado           
condensor            condensador          
condescendent        condescendente       
condescinde          condescender         
condescindere        condescender         
condil               côndilo              
condilom             condiloma            
condiscipol          condiscipol          
condițiune           condição             
condor               condor               
conduce              conduzir             
conductanță          condutância          
conductivitate       condutividade        
conductor            condutor             
conexiune            conexão              
confecție            confecção            
confecțiune          confecção            
confesiune           confissão            
confesor             confessor            
confete              confete              
confeti              confete              
configura            configurar           
configurat           configurado          
configurație         configuração         
confinii             confins              
confirma             confirmar            
confirmație          confirmação          
confirmațiune        confirmação          
confisca             confiscar            
conflagrație         conflagração         
conflagrațiune       conflagração         
conflict             conflito             
confluent            confluente           
confluență           confluência          
conformism           conformismo          
conformist           conformista          
confrunta            confrontar           
confunda             confundir            
confuz               confuso              
confuzie             confusão             
confuziune           confusão             
congela              congelar             
congener             congênere            
congenital           congênito            
congestie            congestionamento     
congestiona          congestionar         
congestionare        congestionamento     
congestiv            congestiva           
conglomera           conglomerado         
conglomerat          conglomerado         
conglomerație        conglomeração        
conglomerațiune      conglomerado         
conglutina           conglutina           
conglutinare         conglutinare         
congolez             congolês             
congratulare         congratulare         
congregație          congregação          
congregațiune        congregação          
congres              congresso            
congruent            congruente           
congruență           congruência          
conic                cônico               
conică               cônico               
conidie              conídios             
conifer              conífera             
conivență            conivência           
conjectură           conjetura            
conjuga              conjugar             
conjugal             conjugal             
conjugat             conjugar             
conjuncție           conjunção            
conjuncțiune         conjunção            
conjunctiv           conjuntivo           
conjunctură          conjuntura           
conjura              conjurar             
consacra             consagrar            
consangvin           consanguíneo         
consangvinitate      consanguinidade      
consciŭ              consciŭ              
conscripție          conscrição           
conscripțiune        conscrição           
consecință           conseqüência         
consens              consenso             
conservator          conservador          
considera            considerar           
considerație         consideração         
consilier            conselheiro          
consilieră           conselheiro          
consiliu             conselho             
consista             consiste             
consistent           consistente          
consistoriu          consistório          
consol               consolá              
consolă              consolá              
consolidat           consolidado          
consomme             consomê              
consonant            consoante            
consonanță           consonância          
consonantic          consonântico         
consort              consorciar           
consorțiu            consórcio            
conspira             conspirar            
conspirație          conspiração          
conspirațiune        conspiração          
constant             constante            
constanță            constância           
constantan           constantan           
constante            constante            
constelație          constelação          
constelațiune        constelação          
consternat           consternado          
consternație         consternação         
consternațiune       consternação         
conștient            consciente           
conștiență           consciência          
conștiință           consciência          
constipa             constipar            
constituit           constituiu           
constituție          constituição         
constituțiune        constitutivo         
constricție          constrição           
constrictor          constritor           
constringent         constringente        
construcție          construção           
construcțiune        construção           
constructiv          construtivo          
constructivism       construtivismo       
constructor          construtor           
construi             construir            
consubstanțial       consubstancial       
consubstanțialitate  consubstancialidade  
consul               cônsul               
consular             consular             
consulat             consulado            
consult              consultar            
consuma              consumir             
contabilitate        contabilidade        
contagios            contagioso           
contagiu             contagiu             
contagiune           contágio             
contamina            contaminar           
contaminabil         contaminable         
contempla            contemplar           
contemplație         contemplação         
contemplativ         contemplativo        
contemporan          contemporâneo        
contendent           contendent           
contiguu             contíguo             
conține              conter               
conținea             continham            
continent            continente           
continență           continência          
contingent           contingente          
contingență          contingência         
continua             continuar            
continuitate         continuidade         
continuu             contínuo             
continuum            contínuo             
contrabandă          contrabando          
contrabas            contrabaixo          
contract             contrato             
contracție           contração            
contractual          contratual           
contradicție         contradição          
contradicțiune       contradição          
contradictoriu       contraditório        
contrafort           contraforte          
contraltă            contraltă            
contrapunct          contraponto          
contrar              contrário            
contrariu            contrário            
contrast             contraste            
contratimp           contratempo          
contravenție         contravenção         
contravențiune       contravenção         
contrazice           contradizer          
contribui            contribuir           
contributiv          contributivo         
control              controlar            
controla             controlar            
controlabil          controlável          
controversă          controvérsia         
contubernal          contubernal          
contuberniu          contuberniu          
contumacie           contumácia           
conturbare           conturbare           
contuzie             contusão             
contuziune           contusão             
conul                cone                 
convalescent         convalescente        
convalescență        convalescença        
convecție            convecção            
convenient           conveniente          
convent              convento             
conventicul          conventicul          
convenție            convenção            
convențional         convencional         
convențiune          convenção            
converge             convergir            
convergent           convergente          
convers              convergente          
conversa             conversar            
conversiune          conversão            
converti             converter            
convertibilitate     convertibilidade     
convertit            converter            
convex               convexo              
convexitate          convexidade          
convinge             convencer            
convoi               comboio              
convolvulus          convólvulo           
coopera              cooperar             
cooperațiune         cooperação           
coordinațiune        coordenação          
copie                copiar               
copremie             copremie             
coprofag             coprophagia          
coprolalie           coprolalia           
coprolit             coprolite            
coprologie           coprologic           
coprostazie          coprostazie          
copulă               cópula               
copulativ            copulativo           
cor                  coro                 
corai                coral                
coral                coral                
corală               coral                
corali               coral                
cordierit            cordierite           
cordon               cordão               
cordovan             cordovão             
corecție             correção             
corecțiune           correção             
coree                coréia               
coregraf             coreógrafo           
coregrafă            coreógrafo           
corelație            correlação           
corelativ            correlativo          
coriaceu             coriaceu             
coriamb              coriamb              
coriandru            coentro              
coribant             coribant             
coridor              corredor             
corifee              corifeu              
corifeu              corifeu              
corigibil            corrigível           
corija               corrigir             
corimb               corimbo              
coriză               coriza               
cornalină            cornalină            
cornet               corneta              
cornicul             cornicul             
corniculat           corniculata          
cornifica            cornifica            
cornișă              cornija              
cornut               cornudo              
coroană              coroa                
corobora             corroborar           
coroda               corroer              
corolă               corola               
corolar              corolário            
corona               coroa                
coronal              coronal              
coronar              coronário            
coronară             coronário            
corosiv              corrosivo            
coroziune            corrosão             
corp                 corpo                
corpolent            corpulento           
corpolență           corpulência          
corporal             corporal             
corporație           corporação           
corporațiune         corporação           
corporativ           corporativo          
corpulent            corpulento           
corpulență           corpulento           
corpus               corpus               
corrigenda           corrigenda           
corsar               corsário             
cortex               córtex               
cortical             cortical             
cortină              cortina              
cortizon             cortisona            
corupt               corrupto             
coruptibil           corruptível          
coruptibilitate      corruptibilidade     
corupție             corrupção            
corupțiune           corrupção            
corvadă              corvéia              
corvetă              corveta              
cosmetic             cosmético            
cosmetică            cosméticos           
cosmetice            cosméticos           
cosmic               cósmico              
cosmo                cosmo                
cosmogonie           cosmogonia           
cosmograf            cosmógrafo           
cosmografie          cosmografia          
cosmologie           cosmologia           
cosmopolit           cosmopolita          
cosmos               cosmos               
costal               costal               
costalgie            costalgie            
costotom             costotom             
cotiledon            cotilédone           
coturn               coturno              
coupe                coupe                
coxă                 coxa                 
cozoroc              viseira              
crampă               cãibra               
cranio               cranio               
craniologie          craniologia          
craniometrie         craniometria         
cranioscopie         cranioscopie         
craniu               crânio               
crap                 carpa                
cras                 crasso               
crasă                crasso               
crasulă              crasulă              
crater               cratera              
crea                 criar                
creație              criação              
creațiune            criação              
creator              criador              
creatură             criatura             
credibilitate        credibilidade        
credit               crédito              
creditor             credor               
credul               crédulo              
credulitate          credulidade          
creier               cérebro              
cremă                creme                
cremalieră           cremalheira          
cremațiune           cremação             
cremno               cremno               
cremnofobie          cremnofobie          
cremometru           cremometru           
creol                crioulo              
creolă               crioulo              
creolină             creolina             
creozot              creosoto             
creozota             creosoto             
creozotare           creozotare           
creozotat            creosoto             
crep                 crepe                
crepitațiune         crepitação           
creps                creps                
crepuscul            crepúsculo           
crescendo            crescendo            
cresol               cresol               
cretaceu             cretaceu             
cretin               cretino              
cretinism            cretinismo           
cretinoid            cretinoid            
crezol               cresol               
crichet              críquete             
criminal             criminal             
criosferă            criosfera            
criptă               cripta               
criptografie         criptografia         
criptogramă          criptograma          
criptozoic           criptozóica          
crisalidă            crisálida            
cristal              cristal              
cristalin            cristalino           
cristalografie       cristalografia       
criteriu             critério             
critica              criticar             
critică              crítica              
criză                crise                
croasant             croissant            
croat                croata               
croată               croata               
crochetă             croquete             
crocodil             crocodilo            
cromat               cromato              
cromatină            cromatina            
cromatism            cromatismo           
cronic               crônico              
cronică              crônica              
crono                chrono               
croșet               crochê               
crucifica            crucificar           
crucifix             crucifixo            
crup                 garupa               
crupier              crupiê               
crural               crural               
crustă               crosta               
crustacee            crustáceos           
cŭadruplu            quádruplo            
cuarț                quartzo              
cŭartet              quarteto             
cuaternar            quaternário          
cub                  cubo                 
cubaj                cubagem              
cubatură             cubatură             
cubic                cúbico               
cubică               cúbico               
cubiculum            cubiculum            
cubism               cubismo              
cubist               cubista              
cubital              cubital              
cubitus              cúbito               
cuc                  cuco                 
cucurbitaceŭ         cucurbitaceŭ         
culată               culatra              
culm                 colmo                
culmen               culmen               
culmina              culminar             
culminare            culminação           
culoare              cor                  
culpă                culpa                
culteranism          culteranism          
cultiva              cultivar             
cultivi              cultivar             
cultură              cultura              
cumulus              cúmulo               
cunctator            cunctator            
cuneus               cuneus               
cunicul              cunicul              
cupeu                coupe                
cupolă               cúpula               
cupric               cúprico              
cuprifer             cuprifer             
cupro                cupro                
cupru                cobre                
curabil              curável              
cura                 curar                
curaj                coragem              
curbetă              curveta              
curial               curial               
curieterapie         curieterapie         
curios               curioso              
curiozitate          curiosidade          
cursoare             cursores             
cursor               cursor               
curtezană            cortesã              
cuspidă              cúspide              
cuspidi              cúspides             
custodie             custódia             
cutanat              cutânea              
cutaneu              cutaneu              
cuticulă             cutícula             
cuvertă              cuvertă              
cvadragenar          quadragenário        
cvadrant             quadrante            
cvadratură           quadratura           
cvadrigă             quadrigem            
cvadruman            quadrumanes          
cvartă               quarto               
cvartet              quarteto             
cvasi                quase                
cvincuncial          cvincuncial          
cvintet              quinteto             
cvorum               quorum               
dacnomanie           dacnomanie           
dactil               dáctilo              
dactili              dáctilo              
dactiliomanție       dactiliomanţie       
dactiliotecă         dactiliotecă         
dactilită            dactylitis           
dactilofazie         dactilofazie         
dactilologie         dactilology          
dactiloscopie        dactiloscopy         
dadaism              dadaísmo             
dalie                dália                
dalmatic             dalmática            
dalmatică            dalmática            
daltonism            daltonismo           
dame                 damas                
dans                 dançar               
dansa                dançar               
dantesc              dantesco             
dare                 dando                
dativ                dativo               
debil                débil                
debilita             debilitar            
debilitant           debilitantes         
debilitare           debilitação          
debilitate           debilidade           
debitor              devedor              
debutantă            debutante            
debutare             debutare             
decadă               década               
decadent             decadente            
decadență            decadência           
decaedru             decaedru             
decagram             decagrama            
decalca              decalca              
decalog              decálogo             
decametru            decâmetro            
decan                deão                 
decană               deão                 
decanta              decantar             
decapita             decapitar            
decapitare           decapitação          
decapitat            decapitado           
decasilab            decassilábico        
decatlon             decatlo              
decembre             decembre             
decembrie            dezembro             
decemvir             decênviro            
decenal              decenal              
decent               decente              
decență              decência             
decenvir             decenvir             
decenviral           decenviral           
decibel              decibel              
decide               decidir              
deciduu              deciduu              
decigram             decigrama            
decimal              decimal              
decima               dizimar              
decimetru            decímetro            
decisiv              decisivo             
decizie              decisão              
declamație           declamação           
declamatoriŭ         declamatoriŭ         
declara              declarar             
declarat             declarado            
declarațiune         declaração           
declarativ           declarativo          
declinat             declinaram           
declinație           declinação           
declinațiune         declinação           
declinometru         declinometru         
decocție             decocção             
decocțiune           decocção             
decolare             decolagem            
decora               decorar              
decorație            decoração            
decorațiune          decoração            
decorum              decoro               
decrepit             decrépito            
decrepita            decrépito            
decrescendo          decrescendo          
decret               decreto              
decubit              decúbito             
decurion             decurião             
dedica               dedicar              
dedicat              dedicado             
dedicație            dedicação            
dedicațiune          dedicação            
deduce               deduzir              
deducțiune           dedutivo             
deductiv             dedutivo             
dedus                deduzido             
defeca               defecar              
defecație            defecação            
defecațiune          defecação            
defect               defeito              
defecto              defecto              
deferent             deferente            
deficient            deficiente           
deficiență           deficiência          
defini               definir              
definit              definido             
definiție            definição            
definițiune          definição            
deflagrație          deflagração          
deflegmare           deflegmare           
deflexiune           deflexão             
defluire             defluire             
deforma              deformar             
deformațiune         deformação           
defrauda             defraudar            
defraudare           defraudare           
defraudat            defraudado           
defunct              defunto              
degenera             degenerar            
degenerat            degenerar            
degenerescență       degenerescência      
degetar              dedal                
degrada              degradar             
degustație           degustação           
degustațiune         degustação           
dehiscent            deiscentes           
deicid               deicídio             
deifica              deificar             
deism                deismo               
deist                deísta               
delator              delator              
delega               delegar              
delegat              delegar              
delegată             delegada             
delegație            delegação            
delfin               golfinho             
delfinul             golfinho             
deliberație          deliberativo         
deliberațiune        deliberativo         
deliberativ          deliberativo         
delicat              delicado             
delicios             delicioso            
delicvescent         deliquescente        
deligație            deligaţie            
delimita             delimitar            
delincvent           delinquente          
delineare            delineare            
delir                delírio              
delira               delirar              
delirare             delirare             
deluzoriu            deluzoriu            
demagog              demagogo             
demagogă             demagogo             
demagogie            demagogia            
dement               demente              
demență              demência             
demite               demitir              
demisiune            demissão             
demiurg              demiurgo             
demn                 digno                
demnitar             dignitário           
demnitate            dignidade            
democratiza          democratizar         
demola               demolir              
demolat              demolido             
demon                demônio              
demonetizare         desmonetização       
demonism             demonismo            
demonografie         demonografie         
demonologie          demonologia          
demonstrabil         demonstrável         
demonstrativ         demonstrativo        
demotic              demótico             
denar                denário              
dendrografie         dendrografie         
dendrologie          dendrologia          
dendron              dendron              
denga                dengue               
denigra              denegrir             
denominație          denominação          
denominațiune        denominação          
denominativ          denominativo         
denota               denotar              
denotat              denotado             
denotație            denotação            
dens                 denso                
densi                denso                
densitate            densidade            
densitometru         densitômetro         
dent                 dente                
denti                dentistas            
dentiție             dentição             
dentițiune           dentição             
denunța              denunciar            
departament          departamento         
departamental        departamental        
dependent            dependente           
depila               depilar              
depilare             depilação            
depilator            depilatório          
depinde              depender             
deplora              deplorar             
deplorabil           deplorável           
deponent             depoente             
deporta              deportar             
deportat             deportado            
depozit              depósito             
depozitar            depositário          
depoziție            deposição            
depozițiune          deposição            
deprava              depravar             
depravat             depravada            
deprecatoriu         deprecatoriu         
depresiune           depressão            
deprima              deprimir             
deputat              deputado             
derapa               derrapar             
derapaj              derrapagem           
derapare             derrapar             
derivă               deriva               
deriva               derivar              
derm                 derme                
dermato              dermatologia         
dermatologie         dermatologia         
dermatoree           dermatoree           
dermie               dérmico              
dermoid              dermoid              
deroga               derrogar             
derutare             derrota              
desbate              desbate              
descinde             descer               
descriptibil         descritível          
descripție           descrição            
descripțiune         descritivo           
descriptiv           descritivo           
descriptor           descritor            
desemna              designar             
desinență            desinência           
despot               déspota              
destructibil         destrutível          
destructiv           destrutivo           
destructor           destruidor           
detașament           destacamento         
detecție             detecção             
detectiv             detetive             
detergent            detergente           
determina            determinar           
determinant          determinante         
determinat           determinado          
determinațiune       determinação         
determinism          determinismo         
determinist          determinista         
detestabil           detestável           
detractoare          detrator             
detractor            detrator             
detriment            detrimento           
detritus             detrito              
deuteriu             deutério             
devasta              devastar             
devastare            devastação           
devastator           devastador           
devia                desviar              
devize               divisas              
devoluțiune          devolução            
devora               devorar              
devorant             devorando            
devorare             devorando            
devot                devot                
devotat              devotado             
devoțiune            devoção              
dextralitate         dextralitate         
dextrină             dextrina             
dextra               dextra               
dextrocardie         dextrocardia         
dextrogir            dextrógiro           
dextroză             dextrose             
dextru               dextru               
dezacupla            dezacupla            
dezastros            desastroso           
dezastru             desastre             
dezastruos           desastroso           
dezbatere            debate               
dezertoare           desertor             
dezertor             desertor             
deziderat            desiderato           
diabet               diabetes             
diabolic             diabólico            
diaclază             diaclase             
diacon               diácono              
diaconal             diaconal             
diaconat             diaconato            
diacritic            diacrítico           
diacronic            diacrônica           
diademă              diadema              
diafiză              diáfise              
diaforă              diafora              
diafragmă            diafragma            
diagnostic           diagnóstico          
diagonal             diagonal             
diagonală            diagonal             
dialect              dialeto              
dialectică           dialética            
dialecto             dialecto             
dialectologie        dialetologia         
dialisepal           dialisepal           
dializă              diálise              
dialog               diálogo              
diamagnetic          diamagnetic          
diametru             diâmetro             
diapir               diapir               
diaree               diarréia             
diareie              diarréia             
diastază             diástase             
diastemă             diastema             
diastolă             diástole             
diastrofism          diastrofism          
diaterman            diaterman            
diatonic             diatônico            
diatonică            diatônico            
diatribă             diatribe             
dicaster             dicastério           
dicromatic           dicromático          
dicta                ditar                
dictat               ditar                
dictatoare           ditador              
dictator             ditador              
dictatorial          ditatorial           
dictatură            ditadura             
dicționar            dicionário           
didactic             didático             
diedru               diedro               
diegetic             diegético            
diereză              diérese              
dietă                dieta                
difamant             difamant             
diferență            diferença            
diferențial          diferencial          
diferențială         diferencial          
dificil              difícil              
dificultate          dificuldade          
difident             difident             
difluent             difluent             
difterie             difteria             
diftero              difteria             
difuziune            difusão              
digamma              digamma              
digastric            digástrico           
digeneză             digeneză             
digera               digerir              
digestibil           digestível           
digestie             digestão             
digestiv             digestivo            
digit                dígito               
digital              digital              
digitală             digital              
digresiune           digressão            
dihotomie            dicotomia            
dijmă                décima               
dilatator            dilatador            
dilatoriu            dilatório            
dilemă               dilema               
diletant             diletante            
diletantă            diletante            
diligent             diligente            
diligență            diligência           
diluvian             diluviana            
diluvium             diluvião             
dimer                dímero               
diminutiv            diminutivo           
diminutiva           diminutivo           
dinam                dínamo               
dinamică             dinâmica             
dinamism             dinamismo            
dinamită             dinamite             
dinamo               dínamo               
dinamogeneză         dinamogeneză         
dinamogenie          dinamogenie          
dinamometru          dinamômetro          
dinar                dinar                
dinast               dinasta              
dinastie             dinastia             
dinoteriu            dinoteriu            
dinozaur             dinossauro           
diodă                diodo                
dioic                dióico               
dionisiac            dionisíaco           
dioptrică            dióptrico            
dioramă              diorama              
diorit               diorito              
diplasiasm           diplasiasm           
diplegie             diplegia             
diplococ             diplococos           
diplodoc             diplodoc             
diplofonie           diplofonie           
diplogeneză          diplogeneză          
diploid              diplóide             
diploidie            diplóides            
diplomă              diploma              
diplomat             diplomata            
diplomatic           diplomático          
diplomatică          diplomático          
diplomație           diplomacia           
diplopie             diplopia             
diplostemon          diplostemon          
diptic               díptico              
direcție             direção              
direcțiune           direção              
directivă            directiva            
directoare           diretórios           
director             diretor              
dirham               dirham               
dirijism             dirigismo            
disartrie            disartria            
disartroză           disartroză           
disbazie             disbazie             
disc                 disco                
discerne             discernir            
discernere           discernimento        
dischetă             disquete             
dischinezie          discinesia           
disciplină           disciplina           
disciplinare         disciplinar          
discipol             discípulo            
discipul             discípulo            
disco                discoteca            
discografie          discografia          
discordant           discordante          
discordare           discordare           
discordia            discórdia            
discordie            discórdia            
discrepanță          discrepância         
discret              discreto             
discrețiune          discreto             
discretoriu          discretoriu          
discrimina           discriminar          
discriminant         discriminante        
discriminare         discriminação        
discriminatoriu      discriminador        
discromatic          discromatic          
discromatopsie       discromatopsia       
discurs              discurso             
discuta              discutir             
discuție             discussão            
diseca               dissecar             
disecare             dissecação           
disemina             disseminar           
disensiune           dissensão            
disentiment          disentiment          
disertație           dissertação          
disestezie           disestesia           
disfagie             disfagia             
disfazie             disfasia             
disfonie             disfonia             
disfuncție           disfunção            
disgenezie           dysgenesis           
disgrafie            disgrafia            
disident             dissidente           
disidență            dissidência          
disimula             dissimular           
disjunct             disjunto             
disjunctiv           disjuntivo           
disjunctivă          disjuntivo           
dislalie             dislalia             
dislexie             dislexia             
dismetrie            dismetria            
dismimie             dismimie             
dismnezie            dismnezie            
disocia              dissociar            
disociație           dissociação          
disoluție            dissolução           
disonant             dissonante           
disonanță            dissonância          
disopsie             disopsie             
disorexie            disorexie            
dispendios           dispendios           
dispensar            dispensário          
dispensare           dispensários         
dispeptic            dispéptico           
dispers              dispersos            
dispersie            dispersão            
dispersiune          dispersar            
displazie            displasia            
dispnee              dispneia             
dispneie             dispneia             
disponibil           disponível           
dispozitiv           dispositivo          
disprosiu            disprósio            
disputare            disputare            
distant              distante             
distanță             distância            
distih               dístico              
distinct             distinto             
distincție           distinção            
distinctiv           distintivo           
distinge             distinguir           
distocie             distocia             
distribui            distribuir           
distribuit           distribuído          
distribuție          distribuição         
distribuțiune        distributivo         
distributiv          distributivo         
distributor          distribuidor         
district             distrito             
distrofie            distrofia            
distrugător          destruidor           
ditiramb             ditirambo            
diuretic             diurético            
diureză              diurese              
diurn                diurno               
divă                 diva                 
divaga               divagar              
divagare             divagar              
diverge              divergir             
divergent            divergente           
divers               diverso              
diversitate          diversidade          
diverticul           divertículo          
divide               dividir              
dividend             dividendo            
divin                divino               
divinitate           divindade            
divizibil            divisível            
divizionism          divisionismo         
divizionist          divizionist          
diviziune            divisão              
divizor              divisor              
divorț               divórcio             
divulga              divulgar             
divulgator           divulgador           
dizenterie           disenteria           
dizolva              dissolver            
doc                  doca                 
docil                dócil                
docilitate           docilidade           
docimazie            docimazie            
docimologie          docimology           
doctrină             doutrina             
doctrinal            doutrinal            
document             documento            
dodeca               dodeca               
dodecasilab          dodecasilab          
dogal                dogal                
doge                 doge                 
dogmă                dogma                
dogmatic             dogmático            
dogmatică            dogmático            
dogmatism            dogmatismo           
dogmatiza            dogmatizar           
dogmatizare          dogmatização         
dolar                dólar                
dolce                dolce                
dolcissimo           dolcissimo           
dolent               dolent               
dolerit              dolerite             
dolmen               dólmen               
doloric              dor                  
domestic             doméstico            
domestici            domesticar           
domina               dominar              
dominat              dominado             
dominație            dominação            
dominical            dominical            
domino               dominó               
donă                 doar                 
donatar              donatário            
donatară             donatário            
donație              doação               
donatist             donatista            
donativum            donativum            
donatoare            doador               
donator              doador               
dona                 doar                 
doric                dórico               
dotă                 dote                 
dotal                dotal                
dotat                dotado               
dotațiune            dotado               
dozimetrie           dosimetria           
dragaj               dragagem             
dramă                drama                
dramatic             dramático            
dramatiza            dramatizar           
dramatizare          dramatizando         
dramaturg            dramaturgo           
dramaturgie          dramaturgia          
drapeu               drapeu               
drenă                drenar               
drenaj               drenagem             
drena                drenar               
driadă               dríade               
drog                 droga                
droga                droga                
drogare              drogar               
drogat               drogas               
droghet              droghet              
dromader             dromedário           
dromo                dromo                
dromos               dromos               
drosometru           drosometru           
druid                druida               
drupă                drupa                
dual                 dual                 
dualitate            dualidade            
dubitație            dubitativa           
dubitativ            dubitativa           
dubitativă           dubitativa           
dublă                dobrar               
dublaj               dublagem             
dubleu               dubleu               
dublou               dublou               
dublu                dobrar               
ducal                ducal                
ducat                ducado               
ductil               dúctil               
duel                 duelo                
duet                 dueto                
dună                 duna                 
duo                  duo                  
duodecimal           duodecimal           
duoden               duodeno              
duodenoscopie        duodenoscopia        
dupleca              dupleca              
duplex               duplo                
duplica              duplicar             
duplicata            duplicados           
duplicație           duplicação           
duplicitate          duplicidade          
durabil              durável              
durabilitate         durabilidade         
duraluminiu          duralumínio          
duramater            dura-máter           
duritate             dureza               
duumvir              dunviro              
duumvirat            duunvirato           
duunvir              duunvir              
e                    e                    
ebraic               hebraico             
ebraică              hebraico             
ebulio               ebulio               
ebulioscop           ebulioscop           
ebuliție             ebulição             
ebulițiune           ebulição             
eburnean             ebúrnea              
eburneu              eburneu              
ecarlat              ecarlat              
ecclesia             ecclesia             
echidistant          equidistante         
echilater            equilátero           
echilibrist          equilibrista         
echilibristă         equilibrista         
echin                equino               
echină               equino               
echinocțial          equinocial           
echinocțiu           equinócio            
echipare             equipando            
echitate             equidade             
echitație            equitação            
echitațiune          equitação            
echivalent           equivalente          
echivoca             equívoco             
eclampsie            eclampsia            
eclamptic            eclamptic            
eclectic             eclético             
eclectism            ecletismo            
ecler                eclair               
ecleziastic          eclesiástico         
eclimetru            eclimetru            
eclipsă              eclipse              
eclogă               eclogă               
ecloziune            eclosão              
ecmnezie             ecmnezie             
ecocardiogramă       ecocardiograma       
ecoencefalogramă     ecoencefalogramă     
ecolalie             ecolalia             
ecologie             ecologia             
economic             econômico            
economie             economia             
economist            economista           
economistă           economista           
ecou                 eco                  
ectoblast            ectoblast            
ectoderm             ectoderma            
ectoplasmă           ectoplasma           
ectropion            ectrópio             
ecuație              equação              
ecŭațiune            equação              
ecuator              equador              
ecumenic             ecumênico            
ecvestru             equestre             
ecvin                equino               
eczemă               eczema               
eczemato             eczemato             
edafic               edáficas             
edafo                edafo                
edafon               edafon               
edem                 edema                
edicule              edicule              
edificant            edificante           
edificiu             edifício             
ediție               edição               
editoare             editores             
editor               editor               
editorial            editorial            
educa                educar               
educație             educação             
educațiune           educação             
educator             educador             
efebo                efebo                
efect                efeito               
efector              efetoras             
efelidă              efélides             
efemer               efêmero              
efemeră              efêmero              
efeminat             efeminado            
efervescent          efervescente         
eficace              eficaz               
eficient             eficiente            
eficiență            eficiência           
efigie               efígie               
eflorescent          efflorescent         
efluent              efluente             
efluviu              eflúvio              
efuzie               efusão               
efuziune             efusão               
egal                 igual                
egala                igual                
egalitate            igualdade            
egalizor             equalizador          
egidă                égide                
eglogă               écloga               
ego                  eu                   
egocentrism          egocentrismo         
egofonie             egofonie             
egoism               egoísmo              
egoist               egoísta              
egotism              egotismo             
eider                êider                
eidetism             eidetism             
ejector              ejetor               
elabora              elaborar             
elaborat             elaborar             
elastic              elástico             
elasticitate         elasticidade         
elastomer            elastômero           
eleatic              eleático             
electiv              eletivo              
electoare            eleitor              
elector              eleitor              
electric             elétrico             
electricitate        eletricidade         
electro              electro              
electrocuta          eletrocutar          
electrod             elétrodo             
electroforeză        eletroforese         
electromagnetic      eletromagnético      
electrometru         eletrômetro          
electron             elétron              
electronic           eletrônico           
electroscop          eletroscópio         
electuariŭ           electuariŭ           
elefant              elefante             
elefantiazis         elefantíase          
elegant              elegante             
eleganță             elegância            
elegiac              elegíaco             
elegie               elegia               
element              elemento             
elenchos             elenchos             
eleron               ailerom              
elevație             elevação             
elevator             elevador             
elice                hélice               
elicopter            helicóptero          
elidare              elidare              
eliminare            eliminação           
eliminatoriu         eliminatório         
elipsă               elipse               
elită                elite                
elitism              elitismo             
elitist              elitista             
elixir               elixir               
eliziune             elisão               
elocință             eloquência           
elocuțiune           elocução             
elocvent             eloquente            
elocvență            eloquência           
elogiu               elogio               
elucida              elucidar             
elucidare            elucidação           
emana                emanar               
emanație             emanação             
emanațiune           emanação             
emancipa             emancipar            
emancipat            emancipada           
emancipator          emancipador          
emblemă              emblema              
emblematic           emblemático          
embolie              embolia              
embrio               embrião              
embriologie          embriologia          
embrion              embrião              
embriotom            embriotom            
emenda               emendar              
emendare             emendare             
emerge               emergir              
emergent             emergente            
emeri                esmeril              
emers                emergiu              
emersiune            emersão              
emetic               emético              
emfiteoză            enfiteuse            
emfizem              enfisema             
emfraxie             emfraxie             
emigra               emigrar              
emigrant             emigrante            
emigrat              emigrou              
emigrație            emigração            
emigrațiune          emigração            
eminent              eminente             
eminență             eminência            
emir                 emir                 
emisar               emissário            
emisferă             hemisfério           
emistih              hemistíquio          
emolient             emoliente            
emolument            emolumentos          
emoție               emoção               
emoțional            emocional            
emoționare           emoţionare           
emoțiune             emoção               
empiem               empiema              
empiric              empírico             
empirism             empirismo            
empirist             empirista            
emporiu              emporiu              
emulație             emulação             
emulațiune           emulação             
emulgent             emulgente            
emulsie              emulsão              
enalagă              enalagă              
enantem              enantema             
enarmonie            enarmonie            
encaustic            encáustico           
encaustică           encáustico           
encefalocel          encefalocele         
enclavă              enclave              
enclitic             enclítico            
endarterită          endarterite          
endecagon            hendecagonal         
endemic              endêmico             
endemism             endemismo            
endocard             endocárdio           
endocraniu           endocraniu           
endocrin             endócrino            
endofazie            endofazie            
endofit              endof                
endofită             endof                
endogamie            endogamia            
endogen              endógeno             
endolimfă            endolinfa            
endometrită          endometritis         
endoplasmă           endoplasm            
endoreic             endorreica           
endoscopie           endoscopia           
endosmometru         endosmometru         
endosperm            endosperma           
endoteliu            endotélio            
endotermic           endotérmico          
eneagon              eneagon              
energie              energia              
energumen            energumen            
enfiteut             enfiteut             
enigmă               enigma               
enigmatic            enigmático           
enorm                enorme               
enormitate           enormidade           
enteralgie           enteralgie           
enterectomie         enterectomie         
enterită             enterite             
entero               entero               
enterostomie         enterostomia         
enterotomie          enterotomie          
entimemă             entimema             
entitate             entidade             
entorsă              entorse              
entropie             entropia             
entuziasm            entusiasmo           
entuziast            entusiasta           
enuclea              enuclea              
enucleare            enucleare            
enumera              enumerar             
enumerație           enumeração           
enumerațiune         enumeração           
enunța               enunciar             
enurezis             enurese              
enzimă               enzima               
enzimologie          enzimologia          
enzootie             enzoótica            
eocen                eoceno               
eozoic               eozoic               
epanadiploză         epanadiploză         
epanalepsă           epanalepsă           
epanodă              epanodă              
epanortoză           epanortoză           
epentetic            epentetic            
epic                 épico                
epică                épico                
epicarp              epicarpo             
epicentru            epicentro            
epicleză             epiclesis            
epicraniŭ            epicraniŭ            
epidermă             epiderme             
epidictic            epidictic            
epididim             epidídimo            
epidot               epidot               
epifil               epifil               
epifit               epífitas             
epigeneză            epigenesis           
epigin               epigin               
epiglotă             epiglote             
epigon               epígono              
epigoni              epígonos             
epigramă             epigrama             
epilepsie            epilepsia            
epileptic            epiléptico           
epilog               epílogo              
episceniu            episceniu            
episcop              bispo                
episcopal            episcopal            
episcopat            episcopado           
episod               episódio             
epistemologic        epistemológica       
epistemologie        epistemologia        
epistrofă            epistrofă            
epitaf               epitáfio             
epitalam             epitalâmio           
epiteliu             epitélio             
epitet               epíteto              
epitomă              epítome              
epizeuxis            epizeuxis            
epizootic            epizoótico           
eponim               epônimo              
epruvetă             proveta              
epulotic             epulotic             
eră                  era                  
eradica              erradicar            
erată                errata               
eratic               errático             
erbacee              herbáceo             
erbaceŭ              herbáceo             
erbicid              herbicida            
erbicida             herbicida            
erbivor              herbívoro            
erculan              erculan              
ere                  era                  
erecție              ereção               
ereditar             hereditário          
eremit               eremita              
eretică              herético             
eretism              eretism              
ereziarh             heresiarchs          
erezie               heresia              
erg                  erg                  
ergonomie            ergonomia            
ergosterol           ergosterol           
ergotină             ergotină             
erinaceu             erinaceu             
eriocor              eriocor              
eristic              erístico             
eristică             erístico             
eritroblast          eritroblasto         
eritrocit            eritrócitos          
eritrodermie         erythrodermia        
eritropsină          eritropsină          
erizipel             erisipela            
ermafrodit           ermafrodit           
ermetic              hermeticamente       
eroic                heróico              
eroină               heroína              
erotic               erótico              
erotică              erótico              
erou                 herói                
eroziune             erosão               
erubescent           erubescente          
eruciform            eruciform            
eructa               eructa               
erupție              erupção              
escadră              esquadra             
escaladă             escalada             
escaladare           escalada             
escapism             escapismo            
escarpă              escarpa              
eschimos             esquimó              
eschimosă            esquimó              
escortă              escolta              
esență               essência             
esențial             essencial            
esofag               esôfago              
esplanadă            esplanada            
estetic              estético             
estetică             estética             
esteziologie         esteziologie         
estimat              estimar              
estro                estrogênio           
estru                estro                
estuar               estuário             
etapă                etapa                
etate                idade                
eter                 éter                 
etereu               etereu               
etern                eterno               
eternitate           eternidade           
eteroclit            heteróclito          
eteromanie           eteromanie           
eteronomie           heteronomia          
etic                 ético                
etică                ética                
etichetă             etiqueta             
etilenă              etileno              
etimologic           etimológico          
etimologie           etimologia           
etiologie            etiologia            
etnic                étnico               
etnie                etnia                
etnobiologie         etnobiologie         
etnogenie            etnogenie            
etnografie           etnografia           
etnologie            etnologia            
etocrație            etocraţie            
etos                 etos                 
etrusc               etrusco              
etruscă              etrusco              
eucalipt             eucalipto            
eufemism             eufemismo            
eufemistic           eufemístico          
eufonie              eufonia              
eŭforbie             euphorbias           
euforie              euforia              
eunuc                eunuco               
euricefalie          euricefalie          
eurignatism          eurignatism          
eurionic             eurionic             
euritmie             euritmia             
eutanasie            eutanásia            
eutexie              eutexie              
eutocie              eutocie              
eutrofie             eutrofização         
evacua               evacuar              
evangelic            evangélico           
evangelist           evangelista          
evanghelic           evangélico           
evangheliza          evangelizar          
evapora              evaporar             
evaziune             evasão               
eventrație           eventração           
eversiune            eversão              
evident              evidente             
evidență             evidência            
evita                evitar               
evitabil             evitável             
evoca                evocar               
evocație             evocativo            
evocativ             evocativo            
evocatoriŭ           evocatoriŭ           
evoluțiune           evolução             
evulsie              evulsie              
exacerba             exacerbar            
exact                exatamente           
exacțiune            exatamente           
exactor              exatamente           
exagera              exagerar             
exagerat             exagerado            
exala                exalar               
exalație             exalação             
exalta               exaltar              
exaltație            exaltação            
exaltațiune          exaltação            
examen               exame                
examinator           examinador           
exantem              exantema             
exaspera             exasperar            
exasperat            exasperado           
excava               escavar              
excavare             escavação            
exceda               excede               
excelent             excelente            
excelență            excelência           
excepție             exceção              
excepțional          excepcional          
exces                excesso              
excita               excitar              
excitabil            excitável            
excitație            excitação            
excitațiune          excitação            
excitatoare          excitador            
exclama              exclamar             
exclamație           exclamação           
exclamațiune         exclamação           
exclude              excluir              
excluziune           exclusão             
excomunica           excomungado          
excrement            excremento           
excrescență          excrescência         
excreta              excretar             
excreție             excreção             
excurs               excurso              
execrabil            execrável            
executiv             executivo            
executoriu           executório           
exedră               exedra               
exegeză              exegese              
exemplu              exemplo              
exempt               isento               
exencefal            exencefal            
exencefalie          exencefalia          
exergă               exergo               
exhaustiune          exaustão             
exhaustiv            exaustivo            
exhibitoriu          exhibitoriu          
exhuma               exumar               
exhumare             exumação             
exigent              exigente             
exigență             exigência            
exigibil             exigível             
exigibilitate        exigibilidade        
exiguu               exiguu               
exil                 exílio               
exitus               exitus               
exocrin              exócrina             
exod                 êxodo                
exoftalmie           exoftalmia           
exogamie             exogamia             
exogen               exógena              
exomfal              exomfal              
exomorfism           exomorfism           
exorbitant           exorbitante          
exorcism             exorcismo            
exorcist             exorcista            
exordiu              exórdio              
exortare             exortare             
exosmotic            exosmotic            
exosmoză             exosmosis            
exostoză             exostosis            
exoteric             exotérico            
exotermic            exotérmico           
exotic               exótico              
expansibil           expansível           
expansibilitate      expansibilidade      
expansionism         expansionismo        
expansionist         expansionista        
expansiune           expansão             
expansiv             expansivo            
expatriere           expatriação          
expectorare          expectoração         
expedient            expediente           
expediție            expedição            
expeditiv            expedito             
experient            experiente           
experiență           experiência          
experimentare        experimentação       
expia                expiar               
expiație             expiação             
expiațiune           expiação             
expiator             expiatório           
expirație            expiração            
expletiv             expletivo            
explica              explicar             
explicabil           explicável           
explicat             explicado            
explicație           explicação           
explicit             explícito            
explicita            explícito            
exploda              explodir             
explora              explorar             
explorator           explorador           
explozie             explosão             
exploziune           explosão             
exploziv             explosivo            
exponent             expoente             
exponentă            expoente             
exponențial          exponencialmente     
exporta              exportar             
expoziție            exposição            
expozițiune          exposição            
expres               expresso             
expresie             expressão            
expresionism         expressionismo       
expresionist         expressionista       
expresiv             expressivo           
expresivitate        expressividade       
expulsie             expulsão             
expulsiv             expulsivo            
exsudare             exsudato             
extatic              extático             
extemporaneu         extemporaneamente    
extendibil           estender             
extensibil           extensível           
extensibilitate      extensibilidade      
extensiune           extensão             
extenso              extenso              
extensometru         extensômetro         
extensor             extensor             
exterior             exterior             
extermina            exterminar           
exterminator         exterminador         
extern               externo              
externa              externo              
extincție            extinção             
extispiciu           extispiciu           
extorca              extorquir            
extorsiune           extorsão             
extracție            extração             
extractiv            extrativo            
extrage              extrair              
extranet             extranet             
extraordinar         extraordinário       
extrapola            extrapolar           
extrapolare          extrapolação         
extras               extrair              
extravagant          extravagante         
extravaganță         extravagância        
extrem               extremamente         
extremă              extremo              
extremum             extremo              
extrinsec            extrínseca           
extrors              extrors              
extroversiune        extroversão          
exuberant            exuberante           
exuberanță           exuberância          
exulcera             exulcera             
exulta               exultar              
exuvie               exuvie               
ezita                hesitar              
ezoteric             esotérico            
fabrică              fábrica              
fabricant            fabricante           
fabricantă           fabricante           
fabricare            fabricar             
fabricator           fabricador           
fabulă               fábula               
fabulos              fabuloso             
fachir               faquir               
facies               fácies               
facil                fácil                
facile               fácil                
facilita             facilitar            
facilitare           facilitação          
facilitate           facilidade           
facometru            facometru            
facoscop             facoscop             
factitiv             factitivo            
facțiune             facção               
factor               fator                
factoring            factoring            
factură              fatura               
faculă               facula               
facultate            faculdade            
faeton               faetonte             
fagot                fagote               
faimă                fama                 
faimos               famoso               
falacios             falacios             
falangă              falange              
falangetă            falangetă            
falcon               falcão               
falenă               falen                
faliat               falha                
faliere              falha                
faliment             falência             
falisc               falisc               
faliscă              faliscă              
fals                 falso                
falsificare          falsificação         
falsitate            falsidade            
falus                falo                 
famelic              famelic              
famenian             famenian             
familiar             familiar             
familiaritate        familiaridade        
familie              família              
fanatic              fanático             
fanatism             fanatismo            
fanatizare           fanatizare           
fandango             fandango             
faneritic            faneritic            
fanfară              fanfarra             
fanfaron             fanfarrão            
fantasmă             fantasma             
fantasmagorie        fantasmagoria        
fantastic            fantástico           
fantazie             fantasia             
fantezie             fantasia             
fantoșă              fantoche             
far                  farol                
faraon               faraó                
farinaceu            farinaceu            
farinogramă          farinogramă          
farmaceutic          farmacêutico         
farmaceutică         farmacêutica         
farmacie             farmácia             
farmaco              fármaco              
farmacologie         farmacologia         
farmacopee           farmacopéia          
farsă                farsa                
fasciculă            fascículo            
fascie               fascis               
fascinație           fascinação           
fascinațiune         fascinação           
fascinator           fascinador           
fascism              fascismo             
fascist              fascista             
fastigiat            fastigiata           
făt                  feto                 
fațadă               fachada              
fatal                fatal                
fatalitate           fatalidade           
fațetă               faceta               
fatidic              fatídico             
faun                 fauno                
fauni                faunos               
fauvist              fauvista             
favoare              favorecer            
favorabil            favorável            
favorit              favorito             
fax                  fax                  
fază                 fase                 
fazan                faisão               
febră                febre                
febril               febril               
februarie            fevereiro            
fecală               fecal                
feculă               fécula               
fecund               fecundo              
fecunditate          fecundidade          
federal              federal              
federalism           federalismo          
federalist           federalista          
federație            federação            
felah                fellah               
feldspat             feldspato            
felicita             felicitar            
felin                felino               
felină               felino               
feloderm             feloderm             
felogen              felogen              
feminin              feminino             
feminism             feminismo            
feminist             feminista            
femoral              femoral              
femur                fêmur                
fenestra             fenestra             
fenol                fenol                
fenolftaleină        fenolftaleína        
fenologie            fenologia            
fenomen              fenómeno             
fenomenal            fenomenal            
fenomenologie        fenomenologia        
fenotip              fenótipo             
fermenta             fermentar            
fermentare           fermentar            
fermentat            fermentado           
fero                 ferro                
feroce               feroz                
ferocitate           ferocidade           
feromon              feromônio            
fertil               fértil               
fertilitate          fertilidade          
fervent              fervente             
fervoare             fervor               
fescenin             fescenin             
festin               festa                
festiv               festivo              
festival             festival             
feston               festão               
fetid                fétido               
fetișist             fetichista           
fetor                fedor                
fetus                feto                 
feudă                feudo                
feudatar             feudatar             
fiacru               fiacru               
fiasco               fiasco               
fibră                fibra                
fibrilație           fibrilação           
fibulă               fíbula               
fideicomis           fideicomis           
fideism              fideísmo             
fideist              fideísta             
fidelitate           fidelidade           
fiduciar             fiduciário           
fierar               ferreiro             
figaro               figaro               
figurație            figuração            
figurațiune          figurativo           
figurativ            figurativo           
filantroapă          filantropo           
filantrop            filantropo           
filantropie          filantropia          
filare               fiação               
filarie              fiação               
filat                fiação               
filatelic            filatélico           
filatelie            filatelia            
filatelist           filatelista          
filatelistă          filatelista          
file                 filé                 
fileu                filé                 
filial               filial               
filiație             filiação             
filiațiune           filiação             
filicină             filicina             
filigran             filigrana            
film                 filme                
filmic               fílmica              
filodendron          filodendro           
filofag              filofag              
filogeneză           filogênese           
filoneism            filoneism            
filosoafă            filósofo             
filosof              filósofo             
filotaxie            filotaxie            
filoxeră             filoxera             
filozoafă            filósofo             
filozof              filósofo             
filozofa             filosofar            
filozofare           filosofar            
filozofic            filosófico           
filtra               filtrar              
filtrare             filtração            
filtru               filtrar              
fimbrie              fímbrias             
fimoză               fimose               
final                final                
finală               final                
finalitate           finalidade           
finanță              financiar            
finanțare            financiamento        
finanța              financiar            
finanțe              financiar            
finit                finito               
fiord                fiorde               
fir                  fio                  
firmament            firmamento           
fiscal               fiscal               
fiscalitate          fiscalidade          
fisil                físsil               
fistulă              fístula              
fistulos             fistuloso            
fitness              fitness              
fitogen              fitogen              
fitologie            fitologie            
fitoterapie          fitoterapia          
fix                  fixo                 
fixa                 fixar                
fixism               fixismo              
fizic                físico               
fizică               física               
fiziocrat            fisiocrata           
fiziognomonie        fiziognomonie        
flabeliform          flabeliform          
flacără              chama                
flaccid              flácido              
flacid               flacid               
flagel               flagelo              
flagela              flagelar             
flagelat             flagelados           
flagrant             flagrante            
flamă                chama                
flamenco             flamenco             
flameu               flameu               
flanelă              flanela              
flanger              flanger              
flash                flash                
flashback            flashback            
flatulență           flatulência          
flatus               flatos               
flebită              flebite              
flebografie          flebografia          
fleboragie           fleboragie           
flegmă               fleuma               
flegmatic            fleumático           
flegmon              fleimão              
flexibil             flexível             
flexibilitate        flexibilidade        
flexiune             flexão               
flexuos              flexuos              
flexură              flexura              
flirt                flerte               
floculare            floculação           
floculație           floculação           
floem                floema               
flogistic            flogístico           
flogiston            flogiston            
floral               floral               
floricultură         flor                 
florin               florim               
floscul              floscul              
flosculus            flosculus            
flotă                frota                
flota                frota                
flotilă              flotilha             
fluctua              flutuar              
fluctuant            flutuante            
fluctuație           flutuação            
fluctuațiune         flutuação            
fluent               fluente              
fluid                fluido               
fluor                flúor                
fluoro               flúor                
flux                 fluxo                
fluxiune             fluxo                
fobie                fobia                
folclor              folclore             
foliaceu             foliáceo             
foliolă              foliole              
fonațiune            fonação              
fond                 fundo                
fondat               fundado              
fonem                fonema               
fonetic              fonético             
fonetică             fonética             
fonologie            fonologia            
fonometrie           fonometrie           
fontanelă            fontanela            
for                  fórum                
foramen              forame               
forceps              fórceps              
forjă                forjamento           
forjare              forjamento           
form                 forma                
formă                forma                
formal               formal               
formalism            formalismo           
formalist            formalista           
formalitate          formalidade          
formaliza            formalizar           
formalizare          formalização         
format               formato              
formație             formação             
formațiune           formação             
formidabil           formidável           
formidolos           formidolos           
formulă              fórmula              
fornicație           fornicação           
forte                forte                
fortificație         fortificação         
fortuit              fortuito             
forum                fórum                
fosfat               fosfato              
fosfatare            fosfato              
fosfor               fósforo              
fosil                fóssil               
fosilă               fóssil               
fotbal               futebol              
fotograf             fotógrafo            
fotografă            fotógrafo            
fotografiere         fotografia           
foxtrot              foxtrot              
fracție              fração               
fracțiune            fração               
fractură             fraturar             
frag                 frag                 
fragil               frágil               
fragilitate          fragilidade          
fragment             fragmento            
fraht                frete                
franj                franja               
franjă               franja               
frapat               frappé               
fratern              fraternal            
fraternitate         fraternidade         
fratricid            fratricida           
fraudă               fraude               
fraudatoriu          fraudatoriu          
frază                frase                
frecvență            freqüência           
frecventativ         freqüentativo        
fregată              fragata              
frenezie             frenesi              
frenologie           frenologia           
frescă               fresco               
friabil              friável              
fricandou            fricandou            
fricativ             fricativo            
fricativă            fricativo            
fricțiune            fricção              
frigid               frígido              
frigoterapie         frigoterapie         
frivol               frívolo              
friză                friso                
frontispiciu         frontispício         
fronton              frontão              
frottola             frottola             
fruct                fruto                
fructă               frutas               
fructi               frutas               
fructifer            frutífera            
fructificație        frutificação         
frugal               frugal               
frugalitate          frugalidade          
frugivor             frugivor             
frustrațiune         frustração           
ftaleină             ftaleină             
ftalic               ftálico              
fucus                fucus                
fugato               fugato               
fugitiv              fugitivo             
ful                  ful                  
fulg                 floco                
fulgurație           fulguração           
fulminant            fulminante           
fuma                 fumar                
fumagină             fumagina             
fumigație            fumigação            
fumigațiune          fumigação            
fumiza               fumiza               
funambul             funambul             
funcție              função               
funcțional           funcional            
funcțională          funcional            
funcțiune            função               
fundamental          fundamental          
fundamentalism       fundamentalismo      
fundamentalist       fundamentalista      
fundat               fundado              
fundație             fundação             
fundațiune           fundação             
funeralii            funeral              
fungi                fungos               
fungibil             fungível             
fungus               fungo                
funicul              funicul              
furaj                forragem             
furajer              forragem             
furios               furioso              
furnal               forno                
furnicare            formiga              
furnica              formigar             
furoare              furor                
furor                furor                
futil                fútil                
futilitate           futilidade           
futurism             futurismo            
futurist             futurista            
futurologie          futurologia          
fuzelaj              fuselagem            
fuziune              fusão                
gabion               gabião               
gabionadă            gabionada            
gabro                gabro                
gaelic               gaélico              
gaelică              gaélico              
gală                 gala                 
galactocel           galactocel           
galactogog           galactogoga          
galactoree           galactorrhea         
galaxie              galáxia              
galban               gálbano              
galeofobie           galeofobie           
galeopitec           galeopitec           
galerie              galeria              
galican              galicano             
galinaceŭ            galinaceŭ            
galion               galeão               
galon                galão                
galop                galope               
galopadă             galopadă             
galopare             galopou              
galoș                galocha              
galvaniza            galvanizar           
galvanizare          galvanização         
galvanocauter        galvanocauter        
galvanometru         galvanômetro         
galvanoplastie       galvanoplastia       
galvanoscop          galvanoscope         
galvanotaxie         galvanotaxie         
gambit               gambito              
gametange            gametange            
gametofit            gametófito           
gangă                ganga                
garaj                garagem              
garantare            garantir             
garanție             garantir             
garibaldin           garibaldin           
gascon               gascão               
gastralgie           gastralgia           
gastrea              gástrico             
gastrectomie         gastrectomia         
gastric              gástrico             
gastrocel            gastrocel            
gastromelie          gastromelie          
gastronomie          gastronomia          
gastropatie          gastropatia          
gastroplegie         gastroplegie         
gastroscopie         gastroscopy          
gastrostomie         gastrostomia         
gastrotomie          gastrotomie          
gatism               gatism               
gavotă               gavota               
gaz                  gás                  
gazelă               gazela               
gazifica             gaseificar           
gazificare           gaseificação         
gazolină             gasolina             
gazos                gasoso               
geamăt               gemido               
gelatină             gelatina             
gelivitate           gelivitate           
geminat              geminado             
geminată             geminado             
genă                 gene                 
genealogie           genealogia           
genera               gerar                
general              geral                
generalitate         generalidade         
generaliza           generalizar          
generalizare         generalização        
generație            geração              
generațiune          geração              
generatoare          geradores            
generator            gerador              
generos              generoso             
generozitate         generosidade         
genetic              genético             
genetliac            genetliac            
geneză               gênese               
genital              genital              
genitiv              genitivo             
genito               genito               
genitor              genitor              
geniu                gênio                
genocid              genocídio            
genom                genoma               
gențiană             genciana             
gentiliciu           gentiliciu           
genuflexiune         genuflexion          
genuin               genuíno              
geodezie             geodésia             
geofagie             geofagie             
geofizică            geofísica            
geogenie             geogénicos           
geognozie            geognose             
geograf              geógrafo             
geografă             geografia            
geografie            geografia            
geolog               geólogo              
geologic             geológico            
geologie             geologia             
geomanție            geomancia            
geometră             geometria            
geometric            geométrico           
geometrie            geometria            
geometru             geómetra             
geonim               geon                 
geoscopie            geoscopie            
geostrategie         geoestratégica       
geraniu              gerânio              
geranium             gerânio              
gerbil               gerbil               
geriatru             geriatria            
germanic             germânico            
germina              germinar             
germinație           germinação           
germinațiune         germinação           
gerodermie           gerodermie           
geronto              geronto              
gerontocrație        gerontocracia        
gerundiŭ             gerundiŭ             
gerunziu             gerúndio             
geruzie              geruzie              
gest                 gesto                
gestă                gesto                
gestaltism           gestaltismo          
gestație             gestação             
gestațiune           gestação             
gesticula            gesticular           
gesticulație         gesticulação         
getic                getic                
gherilă              guerrilha            
ghetou               gueto                
ghetto               gueto                
ghiaur               giaour               
ghibelin             gibelinos            
ghilotină            guilhotina           
ghințură             genciana             
ghințuri             genciana             
ghioagă              clava                
gigant               gigante              
giganți              gigantes             
gigantostracee       gigantostracee       
gigolo               gigolô               
gimcana              gimcana              
gimnastic            ginástico            
gimnastică           ginástica            
gimnaziu             ginásio              
gin                  gin                  
gineceu              gineceu              
gingivită            gengivite            
ginostemium          ginostemium          
gipaet               gipaet               
girafă               girafa               
girandolă            girândola            
giro                 giro                 
giromanție           giromanţie           
girondin             girondin             
giroscop             giroscópio           
girostat             girostat             
girovag              girovag              
girus                giro                 
gitan                gitan                
glabelă              glabela              
glabru               glabro               
glacial              glacial              
gladiator            gladiador            
gladiolă             gladíolos            
gladium              gladium              
glandifer            glandifer            
glandulos            glandulous           
glauc                glauca               
glauce               glauca               
glaucom              glaucoma             
glauconit            glauconite           
glebă                gleba                
glenoid              glenoid              
glicemie             glicose              
glicerină            glicerina            
gliconian            gliconian            
glicozurie           glicosúria           
glifă                glifo                
gliptogeneză         gliptogeneză         
gliptografie         gliptografie         
gliptologie          gliptologie          
glob                 globo                
globul               globo                
globulă              glóbulo              
globular             globular             
globulare            globular             
gloria               glória               
glorie               glória               
glorifica            glorificar           
gloriolă             gloriolă             
glorios              glorioso             
glosar               glossário            
glosare              glossários           
glucoză              glicose              
glumelă              glumelă              
glutamic             glutâmico            
gluten               glúten               
glutinos             glutinoso            
gnochi               gnocchi              
gnomologie           gnomologie           
gnomon               gnomon               
gnu                  gnu                  
gobelet              gobelet              
gofreu               gofreu               
golf                 golfe                
gonalgie             gonalgie             
gondolă              gôndola              
goniometrie          goniometria          
goniometru           goniômetro           
gonion               gonion               
gonochorism          gonochorism          
gonocorism           gonocorism           
gorgonzola           gorgonzola           
gorilă               gorila               
grad                 grau                 
gradație             gradação             
grade                graus                
gradient             gradiente            
gradua               gradualmente         
gradual              gradualmente         
grafem               grafema              
graffito             graffito             
grafic               gráfico              
grafică              gráficos             
grafism              grafismo             
grafit               grafite              
grafologie           grafologia           
graforee             graforee             
gram                 grama                
gramă                grama                
gramatic             gramática            
gramatică            gramática            
gramatical           gramatical           
gramaticalitate      gramaticalidade      
graminee             gramíneas            
gramineŭ             gramineŭ             
gramofon             gramofone            
grandi               grandi               
grâne                grão                 
granit               granito              
granulă              grânulo              
granulit             granulite            
granulocit           granulócitos         
granulom             granuloma            
grație               graça                
gratificat           gratificada          
gratificație         gratificação         
gratificațiune       gratificação         
grațios              gracioso             
gratis               grátis               
gratuitate           gratuidade           
gratula              gratulati            
gratulare            gratulare            
grăunț               grão                 
grava                grave                
gravi                grave                
gravid               grávida              
gravidă              grávida              
gravimetrie          gravimetria          
gravita              gravitar             
gravitate            gravidade            
gravitație           gravidade            
gravură              gravura              
greacă               grego                
grec                 grego                
greci                grego                
gregar               gregário             
grenadă              granada              
grenadier            granadeiro           
grevă                greve                
greva                greve                
gringo               gringo               
gripă                gripe                
grog                 grogue               
grotesc              grotesco             
gruie                grua                 
grunge               grunge               
grup                 grupo                
grupuscul            grupuscul            
guaș                 guache               
guașă                guache               
gulag                gulag                
gumă                 goma                 
gurmet               gourmet              
gutural              gutural              
guturală             gutural              
guverna              governar             
guzlă                gusli                
habenulă             habenula             
habitudine           hábitos              
habitus              habitus              
hacker               hackers              
hagio                hagioi               
hagiograf            hagiógrafo           
hagiologie           hagiologie           
halmiroliză          halmiroliză          
halofil              halófila             
halteră              haltere              
hamac                maca                 
hamadriade           hamadriade           
handbal              handebol             
haotic               caótico              
harpă                harpa                
harpon               arpão                
hașmă                chalotas             
hebelogie            hebelogie            
hectar               hectare              
hectogram            hectograma           
hectolitru           hectolitro           
hedonism             hedonismo            
hegemonie            hegemonia            
heliast              heliast              
helio                hélio                
helioscop            helioscópio          
heliostat            heliostat            
heliotrop            heliotrópio          
heliu                hélio                
helix                hélice               
hematemeză           hematêmese           
hematoblast          hematoblast          
hematologie          hematologia          
hematometru          hematometru          
hematospermie        hematospermia        
hematoză             hematosis            
hematurie            hematúria            
hemeralopie          hemeralopia          
hemero               hemero               
hemialgie            hemialgie            
hemianopsie          hemianopsia          
hemiatrofie          hemiatrofia          
hemiplegie           hemiplegia           
hemocianină          hemocianină          
hemocultură          hemoculturas         
hemofilie            hemofilia            
hemogramă            hemograma            
hemoliză             hemólise             
hemopatie            hematológico         
hemotorax            hemotórax            
hemotoxină           hemotoxină           
hepatic              hepático             
hepatico             hepático             
hepta                hepta                
heptaedru            heptaedru            
heptametru           heptametru           
heptan               heptano              
heraldist            heraldist            
hermafrodit          hermafrodita         
hermeneutic          hermenêutica         
hermeneutică         hermenêutica         
hermină              arminho              
hernie               hérnia               
herpes               herpes               
herpeto              herpeto              
heterocerc           heterocerc           
heterodină           heteródino           
heterodont           heterodontes         
heterogonie          heterogonie          
heteromer            heteromérico         
heterotrof           heterotróficos       
hexagon              hexágono             
hexametru            hexâmetro            
hiacint              jacinto              
hiat                 hiato                
hiberna              hibernar             
hibrid               híbrido              
hibrida              híbrido              
hidatoză             hidatoză             
hidră                hidra                
hidraulic            hidráulico           
hidraulică           hidráulica           
hidremie             hidremie             
hidrobion            hidrobion            
hidroliză            hidrólise            
hidrologie           hidrologia           
hidromanie           hidromanie           
hidromel             hydromel             
hidrometru           hidrômetro           
hidropic             hidrópico            
hidroplasmă          hidroplasmă          
hidrotimetrie        hidrotimetrie        
hiemal               hiemal               
hienă                hiena                
hieratic             hierático            
hieratism            hieratism            
hieroglifă           hieróglifo           
hieroglific          hieroglífico         
hifen                hífen                
higrograf            higrograf            
higrometrie          higrometria          
higroscop            higroscópico         
hilemorfism          hilemorfism          
hilozoism            hilozoism            
himen                hímen                
himeneu              himeneu              
himeră               quimera              
hioid                hióide               
hipalgezie           hipalgezie           
hiperbolă            hipérbole            
hiperbolic           hiperbólico          
hiperboreu           hiperboreu           
hiperemie            hiperemia            
hiperestezie         hiperestesia         
hiperhidroză         hiperidrose          
hipermetru           hipermetru           
hipermnezie          hipermnesia          
hiperplazie          hiperplasia          
hipersomnie          hipersonia           
hipertimie           hipertimie           
hipertrofia          hipertrofia          
hipnagogic           hypnagogic           
hipnogen             hipnogen             
hipnopatie           hipnopatie           
hipnopedie           hipnopedie           
hipnotic             hipnótico            
hipnotism            hipnotismo           
hipnotiza            hipnotizar           
hipnotizat           hipnotizado          
hipnoză              hipnose              
hipocamp             hipocampo            
hipocaust            hipocausto           
hipocentaur          hipocentaur          
hipocentru           hipocentro           
hipocolie            hipocolie            
hipodrom             hipódromo            
hipoestezie          hypoesthesia         
hipogeu              hipogeu              
hipogin              hipogin              
hipogrif             hipogrif             
hipometrie           hipometrie           
hipopotam            hipopótamo           
hipostază            hipóstase            
hipotaxă             hipotaxă             
hipotermie           hipotermia           
hipotimie            hipotimie            
hipotipoză           hipotipoză           
hipotonie            hipotonia            
hipotricoză          hipotricoză          
hipsometru           hipsometru           
hipuric              hippuric             
hirsut               hirsute              
hispanic             hispânico            
histeralgie          histeralgie          
histerectomie        histerectomia        
histerezis           histerese            
histeroscopie        histeroscopia        
histerotomie         histerotomie         
histidină            histidina            
histoliză            histoliză            
histologie           histologia           
historiogramă        historiogramă        
histotom             histotom             
hobby                hobby                
hochei               hóquei               
holism               holismo              
holocaust            holocausto           
holofrastic          holofrastic          
holoturie            holoturie            
homeomeri            homeomeri            
homeostatic          homeostático         
homeoteleută         homeoteleută         
homeric              homérico             
homicid              homicídio            
homin                homin                
homocerc             homocerc             
homomorf             homomorf             
homoplastie          homoplastie          
homunculus           homúnculo            
hoplit               hoplita              
hoplo                hoplo                
hoplomac             hoplomac             
hormism              hormism              
hornblendă           hornblenda           
hortativ             hortativ             
hortensie            hortênsia            
hotel                hotel                
hughenot             huguenote            
humus                húmus                
hurie                houri                
husar                hussardo             
iacint               jacinto              
iacobin              jacobino             
iaht                 iate                 
iamb                 jambo                
iambic               iâmbico              
iatralipt            iatralipt            
iatrologie           iatrologie           
iaurt                iogurte              
ibis                 íbis                 
icono                icono                
iconoclast           iconoclasta          
iconoscop            iconoscop            
iconotecă            iconotecă            
ideal                ideal                
idealism             idealismo            
idealist             idealista            
idee                 idéia                
ideie                idéias               
idem                 idem                 
identic              idêntico             
identifica           identificar          
identificare         identificação        
identificat          identificado         
identitate           identidade           
ideogenie            ideogenie            
ideografie           ideografia           
idilă                idílio               
idiolect             idioleto             
idiom                idioma               
idiot                idiota               
idiș                 ídiche               
idolatru             idólatra             
idolatrie            idolatria            
idoneu               idoneu               
idrocel              idrocel              
ieremiadă            jeremiada            
igienă               higiene              
igienic              higiênico            
igienist             higienista           
iglu                 iglu                 
igneu                igneu                
ignicol              ignicol              
ignipunctură         ignipunctură         
ignitron             ignitron             
ignobil              ignóbil              
ignominie            ignominie            
ignora               ignorar              
ignorant             ignorante            
ignoranță            ignorância           
iguană               iguana               
ilaritate            hilaridade           
ilegitim             ilegítimo            
iliac                ilíaco               
ilicit               ilícito              
ilogism              ilogism              
ilumina              iluminar             
iluminație           iluminação           
iluminațiune         iluminação           
ilustru              ilustre              
ilustrat             ilustrado            
ilustrație           ilustração           
ilustrațiune         ilustração           
ilustrisim           ilustrisim           
iluzie               ilusão               
iluziune             ilusão               
iluzoriu             ilusório             
imaculat             imaculado            
imaginar             imaginário           
imaginare            imaginário           
imaginație           imaginação           
imaginațiune         imaginação           
imagism              imagism              
imagist              imagist              
imago                imago                
imanent              imanente             
imanență             imanência            
imanentism           imanentism           
imaterial            imaterial            
imaterialism         imaterialism         
imaterialist         imaterialista        
imaterialitate       imaterialidade       
imaterializa         imaterializa         
imaterializat        imaterializat        
imberb               imberbe              
îmbiba               embeber              
imbrica              imbricar             
imediat              imediatamente        
imedicabil           imedicabil           
imemorial            imemorial            
imergere             imergere             
imersiune            imersão              
imigra               imigrar              
imigrant             imigrante            
imigrantă            imigrante            
imigrare             imigração            
iminent              iminente             
iminență             iminência            
imita                imitar               
imitabil             imitável             
imitație             imitação             
imitațiune           imitação             
imitativ             imitativo            
imn                  hino                 
imobil               imóvel               
imobilist            imobilist            
imobilitate          imobilidade          
imodest              imodest              
imodestie            imodestie            
imoral               imoral               
imoralist            imoralista           
imoralitate          imoralidade          
imortal              imortal              
imortalitate         imortalidade         
impacient            impaciente           
impact               impacto              
impalpabil           impalpável           
împărat              imperador            
impas                impasse              
impasibil            impassível           
impasibilitate       impassibilidade      
impecabil            impecável            
impediment           impedimento          
impenetrabil         impenetrável         
imperativ            imperativo           
imperator            imperator            
imperfect            imperfeito           
imperfecțiune        imperfeição          
imperial             imperial             
imperială            imperial             
imperiu              império              
impersonal           impessoal            
imperturbabil        imperturbável        
impetigo             impetigo             
impietate            impiedade            
implacabil           implacável           
împlântare           implantação          
implicație           implicação           
implicit             implícito            
implora              implorar             
implozie             implosão             
impluviu             impluviu             
importa              importar             
important            importante           
importanță           importância          
importare            importar             
importuna            importunar           
imposibil            impossível           
imposibilitate       impossibilidade      
impostoare           impostor             
impostor             impostor             
impostură            impostura            
impotent             impotente            
impotență            impotência           
impozit              imposto              
imprecație           imprecação           
imprecațiune         imprecação           
impregnare           impregnação          
impresie             impressão            
impresionist         impressionista       
impresiune           impressão            
imprima              imprimir             
imprimare            imprimir             
imprimat             imprimir             
improprietate        improprietate        
impropriu            impróprio            
imprudent            imprudente           
imprudență           imprudência          
impudent             impudente            
impudență            impudente            
impune               impor                
impunitate           impunidade           
impur                impuro               
impuritate           impureza             
imputa               imputar              
imputație            imputação            
imun                 imune                
imund                imundo               
imunitate            imunidade            
imutabil             imutável             
imutabilitate        imutabilidade        
inaccesibil          inacessível          
inamic               inimigo              
inanimat             inanimado            
inaugura             inaugurar            
incandescent         incandescente        
incarna              encarnar             
incarnație           encarnações          
incarnațiune         encarnações          
incendiar            incendiário          
incert               incerto              
incest               incesto              
incestuos            incestuoso           
inchiziție           inquisição           
inchizitor           inquisidor           
incident             incidente            
incinera             incinerar            
incinerare           incineração          
incipient            incipiente           
incita               incitar              
incitat              incitado             
incizie              incisão              
înclina              inclinar             
înclinare            inclinar             
înclinat             inclinado            
înclinație           inclinação           
inclinațiune         inclinação           
inclino              inclino              
include              incluir              
incluziune           inclusão             
incoativ             incoativa            
incolor              incolor              
incomparabil         incomparavelmente    
incompatibil         incompatível         
incompatibilitate    incompatibilidade    
incompletudine       incompletudine       
incomprehensibil     incompreensível      
incongruent          incongruente         
incongruență         incongruência        
inconstanță          inconstância         
incontinent          incontinente         
incontinență         incontinência        
incoruptibil         incorruptível        
incoruptibilitate    incorruptibilidade   
incredibil           incrível             
incredul             incrédulo            
incrimina            incriminar           
incriminat           incriminado          
incrustat            incrustado           
incrustație          incrustação          
incubație            incubação            
incumbent            incumbente           
incunabul            incunabulum          
incurabil            incurável            
incursiune           incursão             
indecent             indecente            
indecență            indecência           
indeclinabil         indeclinável         
indemonstrabil       indemonstrabil       
indeterminabil       indeterminável       
indeterminat         indeterminado        
indica               indicar              
indicație            indicação            
indicațiune          indicação            
indicativ            indicativo           
indice               índice               
indiferent           indiferente          
indiferență          indiferença          
indigen              indígena             
indigent             indigente            
indigest             indigesto            
indigestie           indigestão           
indigo               índigo               
indigotier           indigotier           
indirect             indireto             
indisciplină         indisciplina         
indisciplinat        indisciplinado       
indiscreție          indiscrição          
indistinct           indistinto           
indiu                índio                
individ              individual           
individă             individual           
individualism        individualismo       
individualist        individualista       
indivizibil          indivisível          
indocil              indocil              
indolent             indolente            
indolență            indolência           
indubitabil          indubitável          
induce               induzir              
inductanță           indutância           
inducție             indução              
inductiv             indutivo             
inducto              inducto              
indulgent            indulgente           
indulgență           indulgência          
indult               indulto              
indument             indumento            
industrie            indústria            
indut                indut                
inefabil             inefável             
ineficace            ineficaz             
ineluctabil          inelutável           
inept                inepto               
inerent              inerente             
inerm                inerm                
inert                inerte               
inerție              inércia              
inestimabil          inestimável          
inexperiență         inexperiência        
inexplicabil         inexplicável         
inexpugnabil         inexpugnável         
inextricabil         inextricável         
infam                infame               
infama               infame               
infamare             infamare             
infamie              infâmia              
infanterie           infantaria           
infanticid           infanticídio         
infantil             infantil             
infecta              infectar             
infern               inferno              
infernal             infernal             
infertil             infértil             
infesta              infestar             
infibula             infibula             
infidel              infiel               
infidelitate         infidelidade         
infinit              infinito             
infinitate           infinito             
infinitiv            infinitivo           
infix                infixo               
inflama              inflamar             
inflamație           inflamação           
inflamațiune         inflamação           
inflație             inflação             
inflexibil           inflexível           
inflexiune           inflexão             
inflige              inflige              
influent             influente            
influx               influxo              
informa              informar             
informație           informação           
informațiune         informações          
informatiza          informatizar         
infra                infra                
infundibul           infundibul           
infundibuliform      infundibuliforme     
infuza               infundir             
infuzie              infusão              
infuziune            infusão              
ingenios             engenhoso            
ingenuu              ingénuo              
ingera               ingerir              
ingerență            ingerenţă            
ingestie             ingestão             
inghinal             inguinal             
inginer              engenheiro           
ingineră             engenheiro           
ingluvie             ingluvie             
ingredient           ingrediente          
ingurgita            ingurgitar           
inhala               inalar               
inhalație            inalação             
inhalațiune          inalação             
inhiba               inibir               
inhibiție            inibição             
inimiciție           inimiciţie           
inion                inion                
iniția               iniciar              
inițial              inicial              
inițială             inicial              
inițiat              iniciado             
inițiator            iniciador            
injecta              injetar              
injoncțiune          injunção             
injust               injusto              
injustiție           injustiça            
inocent              inocente             
inocență             inocência            
inocuitate           inocuidade           
inocula              inocular             
inoculat             inoculado            
inoculație           inoculação           
inoculațiune         inoculação           
inocuu               inocuu               
inodor               inodoro              
inoportun            inoportuno           
inoportuna           inoportuno           
inova                inovar               
inovație             inovação             
insalubritate        insalubridade        
insalubru            insalubre            
insanitate           insanidade           
insațiabil           insaciável           
inscripție           inscrição            
insculpa             insculpa             
insculpare           insculpare           
insectă              inseto               
insecticid           inseticida           
insensibil           insensível           
insensibilitate      insensibilidade      
inseparabilitate     inseparabilidade     
inserție             inserção             
insidios             insidioso            
insinuant            insinuante           
insipid              insípido             
insista              insistir             
insistare            insistir             
insistent            insistente           
insociabil           insociabil           
insolație            insolação            
insolațiune          insolação            
insolent             insolente            
insolență            insolência           
insolubil            insolúvel            
insomnie             insônia              
insondabil           insondável           
inspecție            inspeção             
inspectoare          inspetor             
inspector            inspetor             
inspira              inspirar             
inspirație           inspiração           
inspirațiune         inspiração           
instabil             instável             
instabilitate        instabilidade        
instala              instalar             
instalat             instalado            
instanță             instância            
instiga              instigar             
instigator           instigador           
instilație           instilação           
instinct             instinto             
institut             instituto            
instituție           instituição          
instituțiune         instituição          
instructiv           instrutivo           
instructoare         instrutora           
instructor           instrutor            
instrument           instrumento          
instrumentalism      instrumentalismo     
insuficient          insuficiente         
insuficiență         insuficiência        
insuflație           insuflação           
insulă               ilha                 
insultă              insultar             
insuperabil          insuperabil          
insurecție           insurreição          
insurgent            insurgente           
intact               intacto              
integral             integral             
integrală            integral             
integrant            integral             
integrantă           integral             
integrare            integração           
integritate          integridade          
intelect             intelecto            
intelecție           intelecto            
intelectual          intelectual          
inteligență          inteligência         
intens               intenso              
inter                entre                
interactiv           interativo           
interbelic           interwar             
intercede            interceder           
intercedere          intercedere          
intercepție          interceptação        
intercesiune         intercessão          
intercesor           intercessores        
interdict            interditar           
interdicțiune        interdição           
interes              interesse            
interfață            interface            
interferon           interferon           
interimar            interino             
interimat            interino             
interior             interior             
interjecție          interjeição          
interlinie           interline            
interlunie           interlunie           
intermediar          intermediário        
intermezzo           intermezzo           
interminabil         interminável         
intermitent          intermitente         
intermundiu          intermundiu          
intern               interno              
interna              internar             
internat             internato            
internațional        internacional        
internaționala       internacional        
internunțiu          internunţiu          
interoga             interrogar           
interogativ          interrogativo        
interpela            interpelar           
interpola            interpolar           
interpolat           interpolados         
interpolație         interpolação         
interpolator         interpolador         
interpoziție         interposição         
interpret            intérprete           
interpretă           intérprete           
interpretabil        interpretável        
interpreta           interpretar          
interpune            interpor             
interregn            interregno           
intersecție          interseção           
interstițiu          interstício          
interval             intervalo            
interveni            intervir             
intervenire          intervir             
intervenție          intervenção          
intervenționism      intervencionismo     
intervenționist      intervencionista     
interviev            entrevistador        
interviu             entrevista           
intestin             intestino            
intim                íntimo               
intimă               íntimo               
intitulat            intitulado           
intolerabil          intolerável          
intoleranță          intolerância         
intrând              entrar               
intranzitiv          intransitivo         
intrat               entrou               
intrepid             intrépido            
intrinsec            intrínseco           
introduce            introduzir           
introductor          introductor          
introitus            intróito             
intrors              intrors              
introspecție         introspecção         
introspectiv         introspectivo        
introversiune        introversão          
intrus               intruso              
intruz               intrusão             
intui                intuir               
intuiție             intuição             
intuitiv             intuitivo            
intumescență         intumescent          
inula                inula                
inundat              inundada             
inundație            inundação            
inutil               inútil               
invada               invadir              
invadare             invadindo            
invadat              invadido             
invalid              inválido             
invalida             invalidar            
învește              investir             
invazie              invasão              
invectivă            invectiva            
inventar             inventário           
invenție             invenção             
inventiv             inventivo            
inversiune           inversão             
inverti              inverter             
invertire            inverter             
invertit             inverter             
învești              investir             
investi              investir             
investiga            investigar           
investigație         investigação         
investigator         investigador         
invidie              invejo               
invidios             invejoso             
invincibil           invencível           
inviolabil           inviolável           
invizibil            invisível            
invizibilitate       invisibilidade       
invoca               invocar              
invocație            invocação            
involucru            invólucro            
involuntar           involuntário         
involuție            involução            
invulnerabil         invulnerável         
iod                  iodo                 
iolă                 iole                 
ionic                iônico               
ionică               iônico               
ionosferă            ionosfera            
iperită              yperite              
iperitare            iperitare            
ipocrit              hipócrita            
ipotecă              hipoteca             
ipotenuză            hipotenusa           
ipotetic             hipotético           
iradia               irradiar             
iradiație            irradiação           
iranian              iraniano             
irațional            irracional           
ireconciliabil       irreconciliável      
irecuzabil           irrecusável          
iredentism           irredentismo         
iredentist           irredentista         
ireligios            irreligioso          
iremediabil          irremediavelmente    
irenic               irenic               
ireparabil           irreparável          
irepresibil          irreprimível         
irespirabil          irrespirável         
ireverență           irreverência         
irevocabil           irrevogavelmente     
irezistibil          irresistível         
iridectomie          iridectomia          
iridescent           iridescente          
irideŭ               irideŭ               
iridiu               irídio               
iridotomie           iridotomie           
iriga                irrigar              
irigație             irrigação            
irigațiune           irrigação            
iris                 íris                 
iritabil             irritável            
iritabilitate        irritabilidade       
iritant              irritante            
iritație             irritação            
iritațiune           irritação            
ironic               irônico              
ironie               ironia               
irupe                irrompe              
irupție              irrupção             
irupțiune            irrupção             
isadelf              isadelf              
isiac                isiac                
islam                islão                
isocol               isocol               
isop                 hissopo              
ist                  ist                  
isterie              histeria             
isterologie          isterologie          
istm                 istmo                
istmic               isthmic              
istoria              história             
istoric              histórico            
istorie              história             
istoriograf          historiógrafo        
italic               itálico              
item                 item                 
iterativ             iterativo            
itos                 itos                 
iudaic               judaico              
iulian               juliano              
izobar               isóbaro              
izobară              isóbaro              
izobat               isóbata              
izobată              isóbata              
izocorie             isocórico            
izoedric             izoedric             
izogeotermă          izogeotermă          
izola                isolar               
izolare              isolamento           
izolaționism         isolacionismo        
izolaționist         isolacionista        
izomorfism           isomorfismo          
izonomie             izonomie             
izoterm              isotérmico           
izotop               isótopo              
jacard               jacquard             
jachetă              jaqueta              
jad                  jade                 
jansenism            jansenismo           
jansenist            jansenista           
jardinier            jardineiro           
jargon               jargão               
jasmin               jasmim               
jasp                 jaspe                
javanez              javanês              
jejun                jejuno               
jeleu                geléia               
jerboa               gerbo                
jocheu               jóquei               
joncțiune            junção               
jovial               jovial               
jubileu              jubileu              
judecată             julgamento           
jugular              jugular              
jugulare             jugular              
jujub                jujuba               
jujubă               jujuba               
jurământ             juramento            
jurasic              jurássico            
juridic              jurídico             
jurisdicție          jurisdição           
jurisdicțiune        jurisdição           
juriu                júri                 
just                 justo                
justifica            justificar           
justiția             justiça              
justiție             justiça              
juvenil              juvenil              
karibu               caribu               
ketchup              ketchup              
kilo                 quilo                
kilobait             kilobyte             
kilogram             quilograma           
kilolitru            quilolitro           
kilometra            quilométrica         
kilometraj           quilometragem        
kilometru            quilômetro           
kurd                 curdo                
labiat               labiado              
labil                lábil                
labirint             labirinto            
laborator            laboratório          
laborios             laborioso            
labru                labru                
lacerat              lacerado             
lacerație            laceração            
lacernă              lacernă              
lacheu               lacaio               
laconic              lacônico             
laconicum            laconicum            
lăcrămos             lacrimoso            
lacrimal             lacrimal             
lacrimatoriu         lacrimatoriu         
lacrimosa            lacrimosa            
lactalbumină         lactalbumina         
lactariu             lactariu             
lactație             lactação             
lactațiune           lactação             
lactază              lactase              
lactescent           lactescente          
lacună               lacuna               
lacustru             lacustre             
lagună               lagoa                
lalopatie            lalopatie            
lamă                 lâmina               
lamarckism           lamarckismo          
lambda               lambda               
lambdacism           lambdacism           
lamelă               lamela               
lamentabil           lamentavelmente      
lamentație           lamentação           
lamentațiune         lamentação           
lamento              lamento              
lamină               lâmina               
lampă                lâmpada              
lampion              lampião              
lampist              lampist              
lână                 lã                   
lance                lança                
lanceolat            lanceolado           
langustă             lagostim             
lană                 lã                   
lanolină             lanolina             
lanternă             lanterna             
lanțetă              lanceta              
lapalisadă           lapalisadă           
lapiaz               lapiaz               
lapili               lapili               
lapon                lapão                
lăptar               leiteiro             
lăptoasă             leitoso              
laptop               laptop               
lăptos               leitoso              
lar                  lar                  
larariu              larariu              
laringoscopie        laringoscopia        
laringotomie         laringotomie         
larvă                larva                
larvi                larva                
lăsa                 deixar               
lăsat                deixou               
lasciv               lascivo              
laser                laser                
latent               latente              
lateral              lateral              
laterit              laterita             
latex                látex                
laticlavă            laticlavă            
latifundiu           latifundiu           
latinism             latinismo            
latinist             latinist             
latinitate           latinidade           
latiniza             latinizar            
latrină              latrina              
latură               lado                 
lăudabil             louvável             
laudanum             láudano              
laudatio             laudatio             
lavă                 lava                 
lavand               lavanda              
lavandă              lavanda              
lazană               lasanha              
lazane               lasanha              
lazarone             lazarone             
lazulit              lazulite             
leader               líder                
lecitină             lecitina             
lecită               lecită               
lecție               lição                
lectoră              leitorado            
lectură              leitura              
legal                legal                
legalitate           legalidade           
legatar              legatário            
legatară             legatário            
legație              legação              
legato               legato               
legendă              lenda                
legibil              legibil              
legionar             legionário           
legislație           legislação           
legislativ           legislativo          
legislator           legislador           
legislatură          legislatura          
legitim              legítimo             
legitima             legítimo             
legiune              legião               
legumen              legume               
leguminos            leguminoso           
legumire             legumes              
leishmanioză         leishmaniose         
lela                 lela                 
lenitiv              lenitivo             
lenjerie             lingerie             
lenticular           lenticular           
lentisc              lentiscus            
leonin               leonino              
leopard              leopardo             
lepidolit            lepidolite           
lepton               lepton               
letal                letal                
letargic             letárgico            
letargie             letargia             
leton                letão                
leucemie             leucemia             
leucit               leucite              
leucocită            leucócito            
leucopenie           leucopenia           
leucopoieză          leucopoiese          
levit                levita               
levuloză             levulose             
lexic                léxico               
lexical              lexical              
lexicon              léxico               
leziune              lesão                
lia                  lia                  
liane                lianas               
libație              libação              
libațiune            libação              
liber                livre                
libera               livre                
liberal              liberal              
liberalism           liberalismo          
liberalist           liberalista          
libertar             libertário           
libertate            liberdade            
liberticid           liberticid           
libertin             libertino            
libertinaj           libertinagem         
libido               libido               
librar               livreiro             
libret               libreto              
licență              licença              
licențios            licencioso           
lichen               líquen               
lichid               líquido              
lichidus             liquidus             
lichior              licor                
licit                lícito               
licopodiu            licopodiu            
lictar               eleituário           
lictor               lictor               
lider                líder                
lidocaină            lidocaína            
lienografie          lienografie          
ligament             ligamento            
ligatură             ligadura             
ligni                linhita              
lignit               linhita              
ligroină             ligroina             
ligulă               ligulado             
liguli               ligulado             
liliaceŭ             liliáceo             
liliuță              lírio                
limfă                linfa                
limfatic             linfático            
limfatism            limfatism            
limicol              limicol              
liminar              liminar              
limită               limitar              
limitrof             limítrofe            
limonadă             limonada             
limpede              limpar               
limpezi              limpar               
limuzină             limusine             
linacee              linacee              
lineament            lineamento           
linear               linear               
lingerie             lingerie             
linghist             linghist             
linghistic           linghistic           
lingou               lingote              
lingulă              lingula              
lingvi               lingüistas           
lingvistică          linguística          
linie                linha                
liniar               linear               
linoleum             linóleo              
lînos                lanoso               
lipază               lipase               
lipemie              lipemia              
lipom                lipoma               
lipurie              lipurie              
liră                 libra                
liric                lírica               
lirism               lirismo              
listă                lista                
lista                lista                
listel               listel               
litanie              ladainha             
literal              literal              
literar              literário            
literare             literário            
literatură           literatura           
litigant             litigante            
litigantă            litigante            
litigios             litigioso            
litigiu              litígio              
litofit              litofit              
litofită             litofită             
litogeneză           litogênese           
litografie           litografia           
litologie            litologia            
litotritie           litotripsia          
litru                litro                
lituus               lituus               
livid                lívido               
livră                libra                
livrea               libré                
liză                 lise                 
lizol                lizol                
lob                  lóbulo               
lobotomie            lobotomia            
lobul                lóbulo               
local                local                
localiza             localizar            
localizare           localização          
locomoție            locomoção            
locomotivă           locomotiva           
locular              locular              
locupleta            locupleta            
locupletare          locupletare          
logaedic             logaedic             
logaritm             logaritmo            
logică               lógica               
logoclonie           logoclonie           
logograf             logograf             
logos                logos                
lojă                 alojamento           
loje                 lojas                
lombard              lombardo             
lomentă              lomentă              
longanimitate        longanimitate        
longevitate          longevidade          
looping              looping              
lordoză              lordose              
lot                  lote                 
loțiune              loção                
lubricitate          lubricidade          
lubrifia             lubrificar           
lubrifiant           lubrificante         
lubrifiere           lubrificação         
lucerne              luzerna              
lucid                lúcido               
lucifug              lucifug              
lucrativ             lucrativo            
luctuos              luctuos              
lugher               lugre                
lugubru              lúgubre              
lumbago              lumbago              
lumen                lúmen                
lunatic              lunático             
lunație              lunação              
lunațiune            lunático             
lunulă               lunula               
lupă                 lupa                 
lupei                lupa                 
luping               looping              
lupulină             lupulina             
lupus                lúpus                
lustral              lustral              
lustrație            lustração            
lustrațiune          lustração            
luteină              luteína              
lutier               luthier              
lux                  luxo                 
luxație              luxação              
luxațiune            luxação              
luxură               luxuria              
luxuriant            luxuriante           
macabru              macabro              
macaroană            macarrão             
macaroane            macarrão             
macaronic            macarrônico          
macaronism           macaronism           
macera               macerar              
macerație            maceração            
macerațiune          maceração            
macetă               machete              
machism              machismo             
macho                macho                
macis                macis                
maclă                macle                
maclat               macle                
macrameu             macramé              
macro                macro                
macrocit             macrocytes           
macrocosm            macrocosmo           
macrodontie          macrodontie          
macromelie           macromelie           
macropsie            macropsie            
macroscopie          macroscópica         
maculă               macular              
maculare             macular              
maculat              macular              
madam                madame               
madonă               madona               
madrepor             madrépora            
madrigal             madrigal             
mag                  mago                 
magie                magia                
magister             magister             
magisteriu           magistério           
magistral            magistral            
magistrat            magistrado           
magistratură         magistratura         
magmatic             magmática            
magnanim             magnanimamente       
magnetic             magnético            
magneto              magneto              
magneton             magneton             
magnetou             magneto              
magnetron            magnetron            
magnific             magnífico            
magnificență         magnificência        
magnolie             magnólia             
mahometism           mahometism           
mahon                mogno                
maiestate            majestade            
maieutică            maiêutica            
mână                 mão                  
maioneză             maionese             
majolică             majólica             
major                maior                
majordom             mordomo              
malar                malar                
malarie              malária              
maleabil             maleável             
malefic              maléfico             
maleficiu            maleficiu            
maleolă              maléolo              
malgaș               malgaxe              
malgașă              malgaxe              
malic                málico               
malign               maligno              
malignitate          malignidade          
maliție              malícia              
malițios             maliciosamente       
malonic              malonico             
malpraxis            malversação          
malț                 malte                
malvaceŭ             malvaceŭ             
mamalogie            mamalogie            
mameluc              mameluco             
mamifer              mamífero             
mamut                mamute               
mandat               mandato              
mandibulă            mandíbula            
mandolă              mandola              
mandolină            mandolim             
mandoră              mandore              
mandrină             mandril              
mânec                manga                
mânecă               manga                
mânecat              manga                
manevră              manobra              
manevrare            manobrando           
maniac               maníaco              
manichiură           manicure             
manie                mania                
manifestație         manifestação         
manifestațiune       manifestação         
maniheism            maniqueísmo          
maniheist            maniqueísta          
manivelă             manivela             
manometru            manômetro            
mansion              mansão               
mantelet             mantelete            
mantilă              mantilha             
mantisă              mantissa             
manual               manual               
manuală              manual               
manubriu             manubriu             
manuscris            manuscrito           
manutențiune         manutenţiune         
maoism               maoísmo              
maoist               maoísta              
marabu               marabu               
maraschino           marasquino           
marcasit             marcasite            
marcasită            marcasite            
maree                maré                 
maregraf             maregraf             
mareșal              marechal             
margarină            margarina            
margrafiat           margrafiat           
margrav              margrave             
marin                marinha              
marină               marinha              
marinat              marinado             
mărinimie            magnanimidade        
mărinimos            magnânimo            
marino               marino               
marital              marital              
maritim              marítimo             
marketing            marketing            
marmorean            marmóreo             
marmoreu             marmoreu             
maro                 marrom               
maron                marrom               
marș                 marcha               
marșă                marcha               
marțial              marcial              
martir               mártir               
martiră              mártir               
martiriu             martírio             
martirologie         martirologie         
martirologiu         martirologiu         
maruflă              maruflă              
maruflare            maruflare            
maruflat             maruflat             
maruflu              maruflu              
masacra              massacre             
masacru              massacre             
masaj                massagem             
mascarpone           mascarpone           
mascotă              mascote              
masculin             masculino            
maser                maser                
maseter              masseter             
mașinație            maquinação           
masonerie            maçonaria            
masonic              maçônico             
mast                 mastro               
mastaba              mastaba              
mastectomie          mastectomia          
mastic               mástique             
mastică              mástique             
masticațiune         mastigação           
mastită              mastite              
mastodont            mastodonte           
mastopatie           mastite              
matematic            matemático           
matematică           matemática           
material             material             
materialism          materialismo         
materialist          materialista         
matern               maternal             
maternal             maternal             
maternitate          maternidade          
matinal              matutino             
matineu              matinê               
mătrăgună            mandragora           
matri                matriz               
matriarhat           matriarcado          
matrice              matriz               
mătrice              matriz               
matricid             matricídio           
matrimonial          matrimonial          
matrimoniu           matrimoniu           
matroană             matrona              
matronă              matrona              
maturitate           maturidade           
maus                 mouse                
mausoleu             mausoléu             
maxilă               maxila               
maxilar              maxilar              
maxili               maxila               
maxim                máximo               
maximă               máximo               
maximalist           maximalista          
maximum              máximo               
mazurcă              mazurca              
meato                meato                
mecanic              mecânico             
mecanică             mecânica             
mecanism             mecanismo            
mecaniza             mecanizar            
mecanizare           mecanização          
mecanoterapie        mecanoterapia        
meconiu              mecônio              
medial               medial               
mediastin            mediastino           
mediație             mediação             
mediator             mediador             
medic                médico               
medical              médico               
medicastru           medicastru           
medicație            medicação            
medicațiune          medicação            
medicină             medicina             
medicinal            medicinal            
medico               médico               
medie                média                
medieval             medieval             
medievală            medieval             
mediocritate         mediocridade         
mediocru             medíocre             
medita               meditar              
meditație            meditação            
meditațiune          meditação            
mediteran            mediterrânico        
medulo               medula               
mefistofelic         mefistofélico        
megalezii            megalezii            
megalhepatie         megalhepatie         
megalomanie          megalomania          
megametru            megametru            
meioză               meiose               
melamină             melamina             
melancolie           melancolia           
melanină             melanina             
melanodermie         melanodermie         
meli                 meli                 
meliorism            meliorismo           
melomelie            melomelie            
melopeie             melopeie             
membră               membro               
membrană             membrana             
membranaceu          membranaceu          
membru               membro               
memora               lembrar              
memorabil            memorável            
memorandum           memorando            
memorie              memória              
memorial             memorial             
memorii              memórias             
mendeleeviu          mendeleeviu          
menestrel            menestrel            
menhir               menir                
menisc               menisco              
meniu                menu                 
menopauză            menopausa            
menoragie            menorragia           
menstre              menstruação          
menstrual            menstrual            
menstruație          menstruação          
menstrue             menstrual            
ment                 mento                
mental               mental               
mente                mentos               
mențiune             mencionar            
mentor               mentor               
menuet               minueto              
mercantil            mercantil            
mercenar             mercenário           
merceo               merceo               
merceriza            mercerizar           
mercurial            mercurial            
meridian             meridiano            
meridiană            meridiano            
meridional           meridional           
merinos              merino               
meristem             meristema            
meritoriu            meritório            
merlon               merlão               
merovingian          merovíngia           
mesager              mensageiro           
mesageră             mensageiro           
mesaj                mensagem             
mesia                messias              
mesianic             messiânico           
mesianism            messianismo          
mesianist            mesianist            
mesmerian            mesmerianas          
messidor             messidor             
metabolism           metabolismo          
metacarp             metacarpo            
metacromatism        metacromatism        
metafizic            metafísico           
metafizică           metafísica           
metaforă             metáfora             
metafrază            metáfrase            
metageneză           metagênese           
metagramă            metagramă            
metal                metal                
metaldehidă          metaldeído           
metalepsă            metalepsă            
metalescent          metalescent          
metalic              metálico             
metalifer            metalífero           
metalimbaj           metalinguagem        
metalo               metal                
metamer              metameric            
metamerie            metameria            
metamorfism          metamorfismo         
metamorfoză          metamorfose          
metan                metano               
metasomatoză         metasomatosis        
metastază            metástase            
metateză             metátese             
meteor               meteoro              
meteori              meteoros             
meticulos            meticuloso           
metil                metilo               
metilen              metileno             
metisa               mestiço              
metod                método               
metodă               método               
metodist             metodista            
metonimie            metonímia            
metralgie            metralgie            
metri                metros               
metric               métrico              
metrică              métrica              
metrită              metrite              
metro                metro                
metrocel             metrocel             
metrologie           metrologia           
metronom             metrónomo            
metropatie           metropatie           
metropolă            metrópole            
metropolitan         metropolitano        
metroree             metroree             
metru                metro                
mezencefal           mesencéfalo          
mezo                 meso                 
mezocarp             mesocarpo            
mezofit              mesófilos            
mezofită             mesófilos            
mialgie              mialgia              
miasmă               miasma               
micetofag            micetofag            
micoză               micose               
micro                micro                
microcip             microchip            
microcomputer        microcomputador      
microcosm            microcosmo           
microdontie          microdontie          
microfon             microfone            
microftalmie         microftalmia         
microglosie          microglosie          
micrografie          micrografia          
micrometru           micrômetro           
micron               mícron               
microprocesor        microprocessador     
micropsie            microps              
microscop            microscópio          
microseism           microseism           
microtom             microtome            
micterism            micterism            
micțiune             micção               
midriatic            mydriatic            
midriază             midríase             
mielină              mielina              
mielită              mielite              
mieloblast           mielóide             
migra                migrar               
migrat               migrou               
migrațiune           migração             
milenar              milenar              
milezian             milezian             
mili                 mili                 
miliariu             miliariu             
miligram             miligrama            
mililitru            mililitro            
milimetru            milímetro            
milioane             milhão               
milion               milhão               
milionar             milionário           
milionară            milionária           
milita               militar              
militant             militante            
militar              militar              
miliție              milícia              
mim                  mimo                 
mimă                 mimo                 
mimoză               mimosa               
minaret              minarete             
mina                 mina                 
mînec                manga                
minei                mina                 
mineral              mineral              
mineraliza           mineralização        
mineralizare         mineralização        
mineralogie          mineralogia          
mineralurgie         mineralurgie         
minereu              minério              
miniatură            miniatura            
minim                mínimo               
minimum              mínimo               
minister             ministério           
ministru             ministro             
miniu                mínio                
minor                menor                
minus                menos                
minuscul             minúsculo            
minuție              minúcia              
miocard              miocárdio            
miograf              miograf              
miop                 míope                
mioplastie           mioplastie           
miorafie             miorafie             
miotomie             miotomia             
miozină              miosina              
miozotis             miozotis             
miracol              milagre              
miracul              milagre              
miraj                miragem              
miriadă              miríade              
mirmilon             mirmilon             
mirobolant           mirobolant           
mirt                 murta                
miscelaneu           miscelânea           
miscibil             miscível             
misiune              missão               
misivă               missiva              
mister               mistério             
mistic               místico              
mistică              místico              
mistifica            mistificar           
mistificare          mistificação         
mistral              mistral              
mit                  mito                 
mitacism             mitacism             
mitic                mítico               
mitică               mítico               
mitologic            mitológico           
mitologie            mitologia            
mitoză               mitose               
mitră                mitra                
mitralie             metralha             
mitralia             metralhadora         
mitralii             metralhadora         
mixedem              mixedema             
mixom                myxoma               
mixt                 misto                
mixta                misto                
mixte                misto                
mixtiune             misto                
mixtură              mistura              
mizerabil            miserável            
mizericordie         mizericordie         
mizerie              miséria              
mobbing              mobbing              
mobil                móvel                
mobilă               mobiliário           
mobile               móvel                
mobili               móvel                
mobilitate           mobilidade           
modă                 moda                 
mode                 modo                 
model                modelo               
modera               moderada             
moderat              moderada             
moderație            moderação            
moderațiune          moderação            
moderato             moderato             
modern               moderno              
modest               modesto              
modestie             modéstia             
modist               modista              
modistă              modista              
modul                módulo               
modula               modular              
modulație            modulação            
modulațiune          modulação            
molar                molar                
molare               molar                
molesta              molestar             
molestare            molestação           
molibden             molibdênio           
molluscum            molusco              
molusc               molusco              
moluscum             moluscum             
moment               momento              
momentan             momentâneo           
monadelf             monadelf             
monahal              monachal             
monarh               monarca              
monarhi              monarcas             
monarhie             monarquia            
monedă               moeda                
monetar              monetário            
monetiza             monetizar            
monism               monismo              
monist               monístico            
monitor              monitor              
monocarp             monocarp             
monocit              monócitos            
monoclu              monóculo             
monodie              monódia              
monofizit            monofisita           
monogam              monogâmico           
monogamie            monogamia            
monogeneză           monogeneză           
monogenic            monogenic            
monogenism           monogenismo          
monografie           monografia           
monoideism           monoideísmo          
monolit              monolito             
monolog              monólogo             
monom                monômio              
monomanie            monomania            
monometalism         monometalismo        
mononucleoză         mononucleose         
monoplan             monoplano            
monoplegie           monoplegie           
monosilab            monossilábico        
monosilabă           monossílabo          
monosperm            monosperma           
monoteism            monoteísmo           
monoteist            monoteísta           
monoton              monótono             
monovalent           monovalente          
monoxilă             monoxilă             
monozoic             monozoic             
monstru              monstro              
monstruos            monstruoso           
mont                 mont                 
montan               montanha             
montana              montana              
monticol             monticola            
monticul             monticul             
monument             monumento            
monumental           monumental           
moral                moral                
morală               moral                
moralitate           moralidade           
moratorie            moratorie            
morbid               mórbido              
mordacitate          mordacitate          
morenă               morena               
morfic               mórfica              
morfină              morfina              
morfinomanie         morphinomania        
morgă                morgue               
morganatic           morganático          
morion               morrião              
moro                 moro                 
moros                moros                
mortadelă            mortadela            
mortal               mortal               
mortificațiune       mortificação         
mortuar              mortuário            
morulă               mórula               
moscovit             moscovita            
motilitate           motilidade           
motor                motor                
mozaic               mosaico              
mucus                muco                 
mudejar              mudéjar              
muezin               muezim               
muflon               muflão               
muftiu               mufti                
muget                mugido               
mugi                 mugido               
mugind               mugido               
mugire               mugire               
mul                  muitos               
multi                muitos               
multifid             multifida            
multiform            multiforme           
multiplica           multiplicar          
multiplicabil        multiplicable        
multiplicand         multiplicando        
multiplicație        multiplicativo       
multiplicațiune      multiplicativo       
multiplicator        multiplicador        
multiplicitate       multiplicidade       
multiplu             múltiplo             
mundan               mundano              
municipal            municipal            
munific              munific              
muniție              munição              
munițiune            munição              
mural                mural                
muribund             moribundo            
murmura              murmurar             
musaget              musaget              
muschetă             mosquete             
musculatură          musculatura          
musculos             musculoso            
muselină             musselina            
mustelid             mustelídeos          
musulman             muçulmano            
mutabil              mutável              
mutabilitate         mutabilidade         
mutație              mutação              
mutila               mutilar              
mutilat              mutilados            
mutilațiune          mutilado             
mutism               mutismo              
mutual               mútuo                
mutualism            mutualismo           
muză                 musa                 
muze                 musas                
muzeu                museu                
muzică               música               
muzical              musical              
muzicoterapie        musicoterapia        
nacrit               nacrite              
naftă                nafta                
naftalină            naftalina            
naiadă               náiade               
nailon               nylon                
nanism               nanismo              
napalm               napalm               
napoleon             napoleão             
nara                 narrar               
narator              narrador             
narcis               narciso              
narcolepsie          narcolepsia          
narcoză              narcose              
nard                 nardo                
năruit               ruiu                 
narval               narval               
natație              natação              
nație                nação                
națiune              nação                
nativ                nativo               
natură               natureza             
natural              natural              
naturalii            naturalii            
naturalitate         naturalidade         
naufragiu            naufrágio            
nausea               náusea               
nautic               náutico              
nautică              náutico              
naval                naval                
navicular            navicular            
navigabil            navegável            
navigație            navegação            
navigațiune          navegação            
navigatoare          navegadores          
navigator            navegador            
nazal                nasal                
nazală               nasal                
nebulos              nebuloso             
nebulozitate         nebulosidade         
necesar              necessário           
necesitate           necessidade          
necro                necro                
necrobioză           necrobiosis          
necrofobie           necrofobie           
necrofor             necro                
necromanție          necromancia          
necropolă            necrópole            
necropsie            necropsia            
necrotomie           necrotomie           
necroză              necrose              
necrozare            necrose              
nectar               néctar               
nectari              néctar               
nectarină            nectarina            
nefrectomie          nefrectomia          
nefritic             nefrítico            
nefrocel             nefrocel             
nefrotomie           nefrotomie           
nega                 negar                
negație              negação              
negațiune            negativamente        
negativ              negativo             
negativa             negativo             
negatoscop           negatoscópio         
negocia              negociar             
negociator           negociador           
nenufar              nenúfar              
neocortex            neocortex            
neofit               neófito              
neofită              neófito              
neolitic             neolítico            
neologism            neologismo           
neon                 néon                 
neoplasm             neoplasma            
neoplazie            neoplasia            
neozoic              neozóico             
nepoată              neta                 
nepot                neto                 
nepotism             nepotismo            
nerv                 nervo                
nervi                nervos               
nervos               nervoso              
neuroleptic          neurolépticos        
neutra               neutro               
neutro               neutro               
neutru               neutro               
nex                  nexo                 
nichel               níquel               
nicotină             nicotina             
nidicol              nidicol              
nidus                ninho                
nihilism             niilismo             
nihilist             niilista             
nilgau               nilgó                
nimbus               nimbo                
nimfă                ninfa                
nimfe                ninfas               
nimfeacee            nimfeacee            
nimfomanie           ninfomania           
nișă                 nicho                
nisetru              esturjão             
nitril               nitrílica            
nitro                nitro                
nitros               nitroso              
nitru                nitru                
nivicol              nivicol              
nivometru            nivometru            
nizam                nizam                
nobil                nobre                
nobila               nobre                
nobile               nobre                
nobili               nobre                
nobiliar             nobre                
nobilissim           nobilissim           
nocturn              noturno              
nocturnă             noturno              
nodos                nodosum              
noduli               nódulos              
noesis               noesis               
nomenclatură         nomenclatura         
nomie                nomies               
nominal              nominal              
nominațiune          nomeação             
nominativ            nominativo           
non                  não                  
nonagenar            nonagenário          
nono                 nono                 
noosferă             noosfera             
nopal                nopal                
nord                 norte                
normal               normal               
normand              normando             
normativ             normativo            
nosofobie            nosofobie            
nosologie            nosologia            
nosomanie            nosomanie            
nostalgic            nostálgico           
nostalgie            nostalgia            
notă                 nota                 
notabil              notável              
notar                notário              
nota                 nota                 
notație              notação              
notațiune            notação              
notifica             notificar            
notificare           notificação          
noțiune              noção                
noto                 noto                 
notoriu              notório              
noutate              novidade             
novație              novação              
novațiune            novação              
novembre             novembre             
novice               noviço               
nubil                núbil                
nucleol              nucléolo             
nucleonic            nucleônica           
nucleŭ               núcleo               
nud                  nu                   
nuda                 nu                   
nufăr                nenúfar              
nuga                 nogado               
nul                  nulo                 
nulă                 zero                 
nuli                 nulo                 
nulipară             nulíparas            
numeral              numeral              
numerar              numerário            
numismat             numismata            
numismată            numismata            
numismatic           numismático          
numismatică          numismática          
numulit              nummulite            
nuncupativ           nuncupativ           
nunțiatură           nunciatura           
nunțiu               núncio               
nupțial              nupcial              
nutant               nutant               
nutație              nutação              
nutrit               nutrida              
nutriție             nutrição             
nutrițiune           nutrição             
oază                 oásis                
obediență            obediência           
obelisc              obelisco             
obez                 obeso                
obezi                obeso                
obezitate            obesidade            
obiecțiune           objeção              
obiectiv             objetivo             
obiectiva            objetivo             
oblic                oblíquo              
oblica               oblíquo              
oblici               oblíquo              
oblicitate           obliquidade          
obligat              obrigado             
obligație            obrigação            
obligatoriu          obrigatório          
obliterație          obliteração          
oblong               oblongo              
obnubilație          obnubilação          
oboi                 oboé                 
oboist               oboísta              
oboistă              oboísta              
obscen               obsceno              
obscenitate          obscenidade          
obscur               obscurecer           
obscura              obscura              
obscurantism         obscurantismo        
obscurantist         obscurantista        
obscuritate          obscuridade          
observabil           observável           
observație           observação           
observațiune         observação           
observator           observador           
obsesie              obsessão             
obsesiune            obsessão             
obsidian             obsidiana            
obsidional           obsidional           
obstacol             obstáculo            
obstinație           obstinadamente       
obstinațiune         obstinadamente       
obstrucție           obstrução            
obstrucționism       obstrucionismo       
obstrucționist       obstrucionista       
obstructiv           obstrutivo           
obține               obter                
obtura               obturar              
obturație            obturação            
obtuz                obtuso               
ocarină              ocarina              
ocazie               ocasião              
ocaziona             ocasionar            
ocazional            ocasionalmente       
ocazionalism         ocasionalismo        
ocazionalist         ocasionalista        
occidental           ocidental            
ocean                oceano               
oceanografie         oceanografia         
oceanologie          oceanology           
ocel                 oceli                
oceli                oceli                
ocru                 ocre                 
octaedru             octaedro             
octant               oitante              
octodă               octodă               
octogenar            octogenário          
octogon              octógono             
octosepal            octosepal            
oculist              oculista             
oculistă             oculista             
ocult                oculto               
oculta               oculto               
ocultație            ocultação            
ocultism             ocultismo            
ocultist             ocultista            
ocupa                ocupar               
ocupat               ocupado              
ocupație             ocupação             
odă                  ode                  
odaliscă             odalisca             
odios                odioso               
odiu                 odiu                 
odorant              odorante             
odorifer             odorífero            
ofensă               ofensa               
ofertoriu            ofertório            
ofichial             ofichial             
ofichie              ofichie              
oficial              oficial              
oficie               oficiar              
oficios              oficioso             
oficleid             ophicleide           
ofidism              ofidism              
ofiolatrie           ofiolatrie           
oftalmoplegie        oftalmoplegia        
oftalmoscop          oftalmoscópio        
oftalmotomie         oftalmotomie         
ogivă                ogiva                
ogival               ogival               
olar                 oleiro               
oleaginos            oleaginoso           
olefină              olefina              
oleic                oleico               
oleifer              oleifera             
oleină               oleína               
olfacto              olfacto              
olifant              olifant              
oligant              oligos               
oligo                oligo                
oligocrație          oligocraţie          
oligodipsie          oligodipsie          
oligofrenie          oligophrenia         
oligospermie         oligospermia         
oligurie             oligúria             
olimpiadă            olímpico             
olimpian             olímpico             
olimpianul           olímpico             
olimpic              olímpico             
oliv                 oliva                
olivă                oliva                
olocaust             olocaust             
omasum               omaso                
ombilic              umbigo               
omfalotomie          omfalotomie          
omilie               homilia              
omisiune             omissão              
omite                omitir               
omnibus              ônibus               
omnibuz              ônibus               
omnipotent           onipotente           
omnipotență          onipotência          
omograf              homógrafo            
omolog               homólogo             
omonim               homônimo             
omoplat              omoplata             
onanism              onanismo             
onctuos              untuoso              
ondometru            ondometru            
oneros               oneroso              
onest                honesto              
onești               honesto              
onic                 onic                 
onicofagie           onicofagie           
oniric               onírico              
onix                 ônix                 
onora                honrar               
onorar               honorário            
onorare              honrar               
ontic                ôntica               
ontogonie            ontogonie            
ontologie            ontologia            
opac                 opaco                
opacă                opaco                
opacitate            opacidade            
opal                 opala                
opalescent           opalescente          
opalin               opalino              
opalizare            opalizare            
operă                ópera                
opera                operar               
operare              operando             
operat               operado              
operație             operação             
operațional          operacional          
operațiune           operação             
operatoare           operador             
operator             operador             
opercul              opérculo             
operetă              opereta              
opiat                opiáceo              
opinare              opinare              
opinie               opinião              
opiu                 ópio                 
oponent              oponente             
oportun              oportuno             
oportunism           oportunismo          
oportunist           oportunista          
opoterapie           opoterapie           
opozit               opositor             
opoziție             oposição             
opresiune            opressão             
opresiv              opressivo            
oprima               oprimir              
oprobriŭ             opróbrio             
optare               optar                
optație              optativo             
optativ              optativo             
optic                ótico                
optică               ótico                
optim                ótimo                
optimist             otimista             
optimizm             otimizar o           
opțiune              opção                
opune                opor                 
oră                  hora                 
oracol               oráculo              
oral                 oral                 
orație               oração               
oratoriu             oratória             
orbicular            orbicular            
orbita               órbita               
orbită               órbita               
orcanetă             orcanetă             
orchestră            orquestra            
ordin                ordem                
ordinal              ordinal              
ordine               ordem                
ore                  horas                
oreadă               oréade               
oreade               oréade               
oreximanie           oreximanie           
orfăurar             orfăurar             
orfeonist            orfeonist            
orgă                 órgão                
organ                órgão                
organdi              organdi              
organic              orgânico             
organism             organismo            
organist             organista            
organistă            organista            
organizm             organismos           
organometalic        organometálicos      
orgasm               orgasmo              
orgastic             orgástica            
orgie                orgia                
oribil               horrível             
oriental             oriental             
original             original             
orleanist            orleanista           
ornament             ornamento            
oroare               horror               
orofit               orofit               
orologiu             relógio              
orticonoscop         orticonoscop         
ortocentru           ortocentru           
ortoceras            ortoceras            
ortodontologie       ortodôntico          
ortodox              ortodoxo             
ortodoxie            ortodoxia            
ortoepie             orthoepic            
ortogeneză           ortogeneză           
ortografie           ortografia           
ortolan              hortelão             
ortostatic           ortostática          
ortoză               ortoze               
osana                hosana               
osanale              hosanas              
oscar                oscar                
oscilă               oscilaram            
oscilație            oscilação            
oscilațiune          oscilação            
oscitant             oscitant             
osculație            osculação            
osculațiune          osculação            
oseină               ossein               
osmiu                ósmio                
osmometru            osmômetro            
osmotic              osmótico             
osmoză               osmose               
ospitalitate         hospitalidade        
ostealgie            ostealgie            
osteită              osteíte              
ostentație           ostentação           
osteo                osteo                
osteoblast           osteoblastos         
osteocită            osteocytes           
osteoclast           osteoclastos         
osteodinie           osteodinie           
osteofit             osteófitos           
osteom               osteoma              
osteomalacie         osteomalacia         
osteomielită         osteomielite         
osteopatie           osteopatia           
osteoplastie         osteoplasty          
ostil                hostil               
ostilitate           hostilidade          
ostiolă              ostiolă              
ostru                ostru                
ostreicultură        ostras               
ostrogot             ostrogodo            
osuar                ossuário             
oval                 oval                 
ovar                 ovário               
ovariotomie          ovariotomie          
ovat                 ovadas               
ovație               ovação               
ovațiune             ovação               
ovibos               ovibos               
oviduct              oviduto              
ovin                 ovino                
ovipar               ovíparo              
ovogon               ovogon               
ovovivipar           ovovivipar           
ovul                 óvulo                
oxigen               oxigênio             
oxiton               oxiton               
ozocherită           ozokerite            
ozon                 ozônio               
ozonat               ozônio               
pacient              paciente             
paciență             paciência            
pacifica             pacificar            
pacificator          pacificator          
pacifism             pacifismo            
pacifist             pacifista            
pact                 pacto                
padișah              padixá               
păgân                pagão                
păgâni               pagão                
pager                pager                
păgîn                pagão                
pagină               página               
pahiderm             paquiderme           
pâine                pão                  
pâinea               pão                  
paladin              paladino             
paladiu              paládio              
palafită             palafite             
palat                palácio              
paleolitic           paleolítico          
paleolog             paleologue           
paleontografie       paleontografie       
paleontologie        paleontologia        
paleozoic            paleozóico           
palestră             palestra             
palid                pálido               
palilalie            palilalia            
palimpsest           palimpsesto          
palingeneză          palingênese          
palingrafie          palingrafie          
palinodie            palinódia            
palm                 palma                
palmi                palmi                
palmier              palma                
palmieri             palma                
palmiped             palmípede            
palmitic             palmítico            
palmitină            palmitină            
palp                 palpo                
palpabil             palpável             
palpa                palpar               
palpație             palpação             
palpebral            pálpebra             
palpitant            palpitante           
palustru             palustru             
pamflet              panfleto             
pamfletar            panfletário          
panacee              panacéias            
panaceu              panaceia             
panamericanism       pan-americanismo     
panamericanist       panamericanist       
panariciŭ            panariciŭ            
panaș                penacho              
panașat              penacho              
pancalism            pancalism            
pancrațiu            pancraţiu            
pancromatic          pancromático         
pandecte             pandects             
pandeme              pandemia             
pandemie             pandemia             
pandemoniu           pandemônio           
panflet              panflet              
pangermanism         pangermanism         
pangermanist         pangermanist         
pangolin             pangolim             
panică               pânico               
panicul              panícula             
paniculă             panícula             
panislamism          pan- islamismo       
panlogism            panlogism            
panoplie             panóplia             
panoramă             panorama             
panteism             panteísmo            
panteist             panteísta            
panteon              panteão              
panteră              pantera              
pantograf            pantógrafo           
pantomim             pantomima            
pantomimă            pantomima            
panzootie            panzootie            
papă                 papa                 
papilă               papila               
papiro               papiro               
papirus              papiro               
papulă               pápula               
parabolă             parábola             
paracenteză          paracentesis         
paracetamol          paracetamol          
paraclază            paraclază            
paradigmă            paradigma            
paradis              paraíso              
paradiziac           paradisíaco          
paradox              paradoxo             
parafernă            parafernă            
parafină             parafina             
parafina             parafina             
parafrază            paráfrase            
paragogă             paragogă             
paragraf             parágrafo            
paragramă            paragramă            
paralalie            paralalie            
paralaxă             paralaxe             
paralel              paralelo             
paralelă             paralelo             
paralelogram         paralelograma        
paralexie            paralexie            
paralipsă            paralipsă            
paralitic            paralítico           
paraliza             paralisar            
parametru            parâmetro            
paramimie            paramimie            
paramnezie           paramnezie           
paraninfă            paraninfă            
paranoia             paranóia             
paranteză            parêntese            
parapet              parapeito            
paraplegie           paraplegia           
parataxă             parataxe             
parazit              parasita             
parazita             parasitário          
parc                 parque               
parcelă              parcela              
parcelat             parcelado            
parcimonie           parcimônia           
paremiologie         paremiologia         
pareneză             parénese             
parental             parental             
parentalii           parentalii           
parenteral           parenteral           
parestezie           parestesia           
pareză               paresia              
paricid              parricídio           
parietal             parietal             
parietală            parietal             
paritate             paridade             
parlament            parlamento           
parlamentarism       parlamentarismo      
parmezan             parmesão             
parnasian            parnasiano           
parodie              paródia              
parodia              paródia              
parodontom           parodontom           
parohie              paróquia             
parosmie             parosmia             
parotidă             parótida             
paroxism             paroxismo            
partenogenetic       parthenogenetic      
partenogeneză        partenogênese        
parțial              parcialmente         
participa            participar           
participial          participial          
participiu           particípio           
particulă            partícula            
particularitate      particularidade      
partitiv             partitivo            
partă                parto                
pasager              passageiro           
pasagiŭ              passagem             
pasaj                passagem             
pașaport             passaporte           
pascal               pascal               
pasibil              passível             
pasional             passional            
pasiune              paixão               
pastel               pastel               
pasteuriza           pasteurizar          
pastișă              pastiche             
pasto                pasto                
pastor               pastor               
pastoral             pastoral             
pastorală            pastoral             
pășune               pasto                
patagiu              patagiu              
patelă               patela               
patent               patente              
patentă              patente              
pateră               pátera               
patern               paternal             
paternitate          paternidade          
patetic              patético             
patibular            patibular            
patibule             patibule             
patină               pátina               
patomimie            patomimie            
patriarhal           patriarcal           
patrician            patrício             
patriciană           patrício             
patrimonial          patrimonial          
patrimoniu           patrimônio           
patriot              patriota             
patriotă             patriota             
patriotic            patriótico           
patristică           patrística           
patrocinium          patrocinium          
patrologie           patrology            
patron               patrono              
patronimic           patronímico          
patru                quatro               
patrulă              patrulha             
patrulare            patrulha             
patrula              patrulha             
patrulater           quadrilátero         
patruped             quadrúpede           
pauci                pauci                
pausus               pausus               
pectic               pectic               
pectină              pectina              
pectineu             pectineal            
pectoral             peitoral             
peculiar             peculiar             
peculiu              peculiu              
pedagogie            pedagogia            
pedală               pedal                
pedant               pedante              
pederast             pederasta            
pedestru             pedestre             
pediatră             pediatra             
pediatru             pediatra             
pedichiură           pedicure             
pedicul              pedículo             
pedicur              pedicure             
pediluviu            pediluviu            
pedologie            pedologia            
pehblendă            pechblenda           
peisagism            paisagismo           
peisaj               paisagem             
peisajer             paisagem             
pejorativ            pejorativo           
pelago               pelago               
pelagoscop           pelagoscop           
pelagră              pelagra              
pelerin              peregrino            
pelican              pelicano             
pelotă               pelota               
pelucid              pelúcida             
pelvi                pélvica              
pelvis               pélvis               
pelvitomie           pelvitomie           
pendent              pendente             
pendinte             pendente             
pendul               pêndulo              
penetra              penetrar             
penetrabil           penetrável           
penetrație           penetração           
penetrațiune         penetração           
penicil              penicilina           
peninsulă            península            
penis                pênis                
penitent             penitente            
penitență            penitência           
penitențiar          penitenciária        
pensare              pinça                
pensiune             pensão               
pentaedru            pentaédrico          
pentagon             pentágono            
pentagramă           pentagrama           
pentametru           pentâmetro           
pentan               pentano              
penultim             penúltimo            
penumbră             penumbra             
penurie              penúria              
pepită               pepita               
peplu                peplos               
pepsină              pepsina              
per                  por                  
percepe              perceber             
perceptibil          perceptível          
percepție            percepção            
percepționist        percepţionist        
perceptiv            perceptivo           
perci                perci                
percolare            percolação           
percutare            percutare            
percuție             percussão            
perdiție             perdição             
perdițiune           perdição             
peregrin             peregrino            
peren                perene               
perena               perene               
perenitate           perenidade           
perestroika          perestroika          
perfect              perfeito             
perfecta             perfeito             
perfecțiune          perfeição            
perfid               pérfida              
perfidie             perfídia             
perfora              perfurar             
perforare            perfuração           
perfuzie             perfusão             
pergament            pergaminho           
periant              perianto             
peribol              peribol              
pericard             pericárdio           
pericardio           pericárdio           
pericol              perigo               
pericopă             perícope             
pericul              perigo               
periculos            perigoso             
peridot              peridoto             
peridotit            peridotito           
perigeu              perigeu              
periheliu            periélio             
perimetru            perímetro            
perimisiu            perimisiu            
perineo              perineo              
perineu              períneo              
perioadă             período              
periodic             periódico            
periost              periósteo            
periosteo            periósteo            
peripatetic          peripatético         
periplu              périplo              
peripter             peripter             
perispomen           perispomen           
peristil             peristilo            
peristom             peristome            
peritoneo            peritoneo            
permanent            permanente           
permeabil            permeável            
permisiune           permissão            
permite              permitir             
permitere            permitindo           
permuta              permutar             
permutație           permutação           
permutațiune         permutação           
pernicios            pernicioso           
perora               perorar              
perorație            peroração            
perpetra             perpetrable          
perpetuu             perpétuo             
perpetua             perpetuar            
perpetuare           perpetuação          
perpetuitate         perpetuidade         
perplex              perplexo             
perplexitate         perplexidade         
persevera            perseverar           
perseverant          perseverante         
perseverență         perseverança         
persista             persistir            
persistent           persistente          
persoană             pessoa               
personal             pessoal              
personalism          personalismo         
personalist          personalista         
personalitate        personalidade        
persuasiune          persuasão            
persuasiv            persuasivo           
pertinent            pertinente           
pertinență           pertinência          
perturba             perturbar            
perturbație          perturbação          
perturbațiune        perturbação          
perucă               peruca               
pervers              perversamente        
perversitate         perversidade         
perversiune          perversão            
perverti             perverter            
pervertire           pervertendo          
pesar                pessário             
pesetă               peseta               
pesimism             pessimismo           
pesimist             pessimista           
pesticid             pesticida            
pestifera            pestifera            
pestilent            pestilento           
pestilență           pestilento           
petală               pétala               
petauristă           petaurista           
peteșie              petéquias            
pețiol               pecíolo              
petit                petit                
petiție              petição              
petițiune            petição              
petitoriu            petitoriu            
petricol             petricol             
petrologie           petrologia           
petulant             petulante            
pi                   pi                   
pian                 piano                
pianissimo           pianíssimo           
piano                piano                
piartroză            piartroză            
piastru              piastra              
picaresc             picaresco            
pichet               piquete              
picric               pícrico              
pictografie          pictografia          
pictor               pintor               
pictură              pintura              
pidgin               pidgin               
piedestal            pedestal             
pielo                pielonefrite         
pielonefrită         pielonefrite         
pierrot              pierrot              
piersică             pêssego              
pietate              piedade              
pietist              pietista             
pigmeŭ               pigmeu               
pigmei               pigmeus              
pigment              pigmento             
pijama               pijama               
pilaf                pilau                
pilon                pilone               
pilor                piloro               
pilos                piloso               
pilot                piloto               
pilulă               pílula               
pinaclu              pinaclu              
pineal               pineal               
pineală              pineal               
pinguin              pinguim              
piniped              pinípedes            
pion                 peão                 
pionier              pioneiro             
pionieră             pioneiro             
pipetă               pipeta               
piramidă             pirâmide             
piramidal            piramidal            
pirat                pirata               
pireni               pireno               
pireu                purê                 
pirexie              pirexia              
piridoxină           piridoxina           
piroclastit          piroclástico         
pirogen              pyrogenic            
piroliză             pirólise             
pirometru            pirômetro            
pirotehnie           pirotecnia           
piruetă              pirueta              
pirueta              pirueta              
piscină              piscina              
pisiform             pisiforme            
pistil               pistilo              
pistol               pistola              
pistolă              pistola              
piston               pistão               
pitec                pitec                
pitecantrop          pitecantropo         
piteco               piteco               
pitonisă             pitonisa             
piure                purê                 
pizză                pizza                
pizzerie             pizzaria             
pizzicato            pizicato             
placebo              placebo              
placentă             placenta             
placodonta           placodonta           
plagiat              plágio               
plagiatoare          plagiador            
plagiator            plagiador            
plagioclaz           plagioclase          
plajă                praia                
plămân               pulmão               
plămîn               pulmão               
plan                 plano                
planetă              planeta              
planetar             planetário           
planetară            planetário           
plani                planar               
planisferă           planisfério          
plantă               planta               
plantație            plantação            
plantațiune          plantação            
plante               plantas              
plantigrad           plantígrado          
planturos            planturos            
plasmodiu            plasmodium           
plastic              plástico             
plastică             plástico             
plastron             plastrão             
platină              platina              
platonism            platonismo           
plauzibil            plausível            
plebe                plebe                
plebeu               plebeu               
plebi                plebe                
plebiscit            plebiscito           
plectru              plectru              
plen                 plenário             
plenar               plenário             
plenară              plenário             
plenipotențiar       plenipotenciário     
plenison             plenison             
pleocroism           pleocroism           
pleomorfism          pleomorfismo         
pleonasm             pleonasmo            
plesimetru           plesimetru           
plesiozaur           plesiossauro         
pletismografie       pletismografia       
pletoră              pletora              
pleură               pleura               
pleurezie            pleurisia            
pleurodinie          pleurodinie          
plex                 plexo                
plexi                plexi                
plintă               plinto               
pliocen              plioceno             
ploios               chuvoso              
plumbagine           plumbagine           
plumbago             plumbago             
plumbos              plumbous             
plural               plural               
pluralism            pluralismo           
pluralitate          pluralidade          
pluteu               pluteu               
pluvial              pluvial              
pluvio               pluvio               
pneumă               pneuma               
pneumatic            pneumático           
pneumococ            pneumococo           
pneumoconioză        pneumoconiose        
pneumonie            pneumonia            
pneumotomie          pneumotomy           
podium               pódio                
podometru            podometru            
poem                 poema                
poemă                poema                
poet                 poeta                
poetă                poetisa              
poetic               poético              
poetică              poética              
poezie               poesia               
polemologie          polemologie          
polen                pólen                
poleni               pólen                
policar              polegar              
policroism           policroism           
polidipsie           polidipsia           
poligon              polígono             
polimastie           polimastie           
polimer              polímero             
polimorfism          polimorfismo         
poliomielită         poliomielite         
poliopie             poliopie             
polip                pólipo               
poliptic             políptico            
polisilabic          polissilábico        
politeism            politeísmo           
politic              político             
politică             política             
politici             política             
poliție              polícia              
poliurie             poliúria             
polivalent           polivalente          
polo                 polo                 
poltron              poltrão              
polua                poluir               
pomadă               pomada               
pomăda               pomada               
pomădat              pomada               
pomicultură          pomicultura          
pomologie            pomologia            
pompă                bombear              
pompei               bombear              
pompon               pompom               
pompos               pomposo              
poncho               poncho               
ponderabil           ponderável           
ponderație           ponderação           
ponderațiune         ponderação           
ponei                pónei                
pont                 ponta                
pontifical           pontifical           
ponton               pontão               
pontonier            pontonier            
popular              popular              
populare             popular              
popularitate         popularidade         
populațiune          população            
populism             populismo            
populist             populista            
por                  poro                 
porcan               porcan               
porfir               pórfiro              
porfiriza            porfiriza            
porfirizare          porfirizare          
porfirizat           porfirizat           
pornograf            pornógrafo           
portar               porteiro             
portativ             portátil             
portice              pórticos             
port                 porto                
posedat              possesso             
posesiv              possessivo           
posibil              possível             
posibilitate         possibilidade        
posident             posident             
post                 postar               
poștal               postal               
posterior            posterior            
posteritate          posteridade          
postmeridian         pós-meridiano        
postula              postulado            
postulant            postulante           
postulantă           postulante           
postulat             postulado            
postulație           postulado            
postum               postumamente         
postumă              póstumo              
potabil              potável              
potaș                potassa              
potasă               potassa              
potent               potente              
potență              potência             
poternă              poternă              
poto                 poto                 
poza                 pose                 
poziție              posição              
pozițiune            positivo             
pozitiv              positivo             
pozitivism           positivismo          
pozitivist           positivista          
pozitron             pósitron             
practica             prática              
practică             prática              
pragmatic            pragmático           
pragmatică           pragmático           
pragmatism           pragmatismo          
prairial             prairial             
pralină              pralina              
prandial             prandial             
praseodim            praseodímio          
praxiologie          praxiologia          
praxis               práxis               
pre                  pre                  
prebendă             prebenda             
precar               precário             
precariu             precariu             
preceda              preceder             
precedență           precedência          
preceptor            preceptor            
precesie             precessão            
precesiune           precessão            
precipita            precipitar           
precipitant          precipitado          
precipitat           precipitar           
precis               preciso              
precizie             precisão             
precoce              precoce              
precursoare          precursor            
precursor            precursor            
predestinație        predestinação        
predicat             predicado            
predicație           predicação           
predicațiune         predicação           
predicativ           predicativo          
predicție            predição             
predilecție          predileção           
preeminență          preeminência         
preemțiune           preempção            
prefață              prefácio             
prefect              prefeito             
prefectură           prefeitura           
prefix               prefixo              
pregăti              preparar             
pregătit             preparado            
prehensil            preênsil             
prelat               prelado              
prelecțiune          prelecţiune          
preliminar           preliminar           
preliminare          preliminar           
preliminarii         preliminar           
preluda              prelúdio             
preludare            preludare            
preludiu             prelúdio             
prematur             prematuro            
premedita            premeditar           
premisă              premissa             
premiu               prêmio               
prepara              preparar             
preparație           preparação           
preparator           preparador           
preparatoriŭ         preparatória         
preponderant         preponderante        
prepotent            prepotente           
prepotență           prepotente           
prepoziție           preposição           
prepozitură          prepozitură          
prepuț               prepúcio             
prerogativă          prerrogativa         
prescripție          prescrição           
președinte           presidente           
presiune             pressão              
prestidigitație      prestidigitação      
prestidigitațiune    prestidigitação      
prestidigitator      prestidigitador      
prestigiu            prestígio            
prestimoniu          prestimoniu          
presto               presto               
pretențios           pretensioso          
preterit             pretérito            
preterițiune         preterição           
pretext              pretexto             
prețios              precioso             
pretor               pretor               
pretorian            pretoriano           
prevarica            prevarica            
prevenție            prevenção            
prezbiacuzie         presbiacusia         
prezbiopie           presbiopia           
prezbiteriu          presbitério          
prezență             presença             
prezentare           apresentação         
prezerva             preservar            
prezervare           preservação          
prezervativ          preservativo         
prezidiu             presídio             
prezenta             apresentar           
prezumptiv           presuntivo           
prezumție            presunção            
prezumțios           presunçoso           
prezumtiv            presuntivo           
priapeu              priapeu              
primat               primaz               
primicer             primicer             
primitiv             primitivo            
primogenit           primogenit           
primordiu            primordiu            
primulă              prímula              
princeps             princeps             
principal            principal            
principat            principado           
principesă           princesa             
principiu            princípio            
prințesă             princesa             
prioritate           prioridade           
prismatoid           prismatoid           
pritan               pritan               
priva                privar               
privat               privado              
privată              privado              
privațiune           privação             
privativ             privativo            
privatiza            privatizar           
privez               privar               
privilegiŭ           privilégio           
pro                  pró                  
probabil             provavelmente        
probabilism          probabilismo         
probabilitate        probabilidade        
probant              probant              
probat               provou               
probație             provação             
probațiune           provação             
probitate            probidade            
problemă             problema             
proboscidă           proboscidea          
procambiu            procambiu            
procariot            procariotas          
procedare            procedare            
proceleusmatic       proceleusmatic       
proces               processo             
procesiune           procissão            
procesor             processador          
proclama             proclamar            
proclamație          proclamação          
proconsul            procônsul            
proconsular          proconsular          
procrea              procriar             
procreație           procriação           
procreațiune         procriação           
procreator           procriador           
proctalgie           proctalgia           
proctoplastie        proctoplastie        
proctoscopie         proctoscope          
proctotomie          proctotomie          
procurator           procurador           
prodiga              pródigo              
prodigios            prodigiosamente      
produc               produzir             
produce              produzir             
produs               produto              
proeminent           proeminente          
profan               profano              
profana              profano              
profază              prophase             
profesie             profissão            
profesiogramă        profissão            
profesiune           profissão            
profesoară           professor            
profesor             professor            
profet               profeta              
profetic             profético            
profil               perfil               
profund              profundo             
profunditate         profundidade         
profuziune           profusão             
progenitor           progenitor           
prognat              prognatismo          
prognostic           prognóstico          
program              programa             
progres              progresso            
progresie            progressão           
progresism           progressismo         
progresiune          progressão           
prohibi              proibir              
prohibiție           proibição            
prohibitiv           proibitivo           
prohibitoriu         prohibitoriu         
proiect              projeto              
proiecție            projeção             
proiectil            projétil             
proiecționist        projecionista        
proiecționistă       projecionista        
proiecțiune          projeto              
proiector            projetor             
prolaps              prolapso             
prolegomene          prolegómenos         
prolepsă             prolepsă             
proletar             proletário           
proli                proliferação         
prolifer             proliferação         
proliferare          proliferação         
prolix               prolixo              
prolog               prólogo              
promiscuu            promíscuo            
promisiune           promessa             
promontoriu          promontório          
promotoare           promotor             
promotor             promotor             
promova              promover             
promulga             promulgar            
pronație             pronação             
pronator             pronador             
pronominal           pronominal           
pronostic            prognóstico          
pronume              pronome              
pronunț              pronunciar           
propaga              propagar             
propagandă           propaganda           
propan               propano              
propedeutică         propedêutico         
propensiune          propensão            
propice              propício             
proporție            proporção            
proporții            proporção            
proporțional         proporcional         
proporționalitate    proporcionalidade    
proporționat         proporcionado        
proporțiune          proporção            
propriu              próprio              
proprietar           proprietário         
proprietară          proprietário         
proprietate          propriedade          
propulsie            propulsão            
propune              propor               
proroga              prorrogar            
prosceniŭ            prosceniŭ            
proscrie             proscrever           
prosector            prossector           
prosopalgie          prosopalgie          
prosopografie        prosopografie        
prosopopeie          prosopopeie          
prospect             prospecto            
prosperitate         prosperidade         
prostată             próstata             
prostatită           prostatite           
prostituată          prostituta           
prostitută           prostituta           
prostituție          prostituição         
protagonist          protagonista         
protază              prótase              
protecție            proteção             
protecționism        protecionismo        
protector            protetor             
proteiform           proteiforme          
proteină             proteína             
proteja              proteger             
proteolitic          proteolítica         
proteoliză           proteólise           
proterv              proterv              
protestant           protestante          
protist              protist              
protocol             protocolo            
prototip             protótipo            
protuberanță         protuberância        
proudhonian          proudhoniano         
provă                proa                 
provensal            provençal            
provensală           provençal            
proverb              provérbio            
proverbial           proverbial           
providență           providência          
providențial         providencial         
provincial           provincial           
provincie            província            
provocație           provocação           
proxim               próximo              
proximitate          proximidade          
proză                prosa                
prozaic              prosaico             
prozelit             proselitismo         
prozelită            proselitismo         
prudent              prudente             
prurigo              prurigo              
prurit               prurido              
prusic               prussic              
psalm                salmo                
psalmist             salmista             
psalterion           saltério             
psamom               psamom               
psamon               psamon               
psi                  psi                  
psihastenie          psihastenie          
psihedelic           psicodélico          
psiholog             psicólogo            
psihotic             psicótico            
psihotrop            psicotrópica         
psilomelan           psilomelan           
psitacism            psitacism            
psitaco              psitaco              
psoas                psoas                
psoriazis            psoríase             
pterido              pterido              
pterigion            pterígio             
pterodactil          pterodáctilo         
pub                  pub                  
pubertate            puberdade            
pubis                púbis                
publică              público              
publican             publicano            
publicație           publicação           
publicațiune         publicação           
pudibund             pudibund             
puding               pudim                
puerperal            puerperal            
puerperiu            puerperiu            
pulie                polia                
pulmon               pulmão               
puls                 pulso                
pulsatil             pulsátil             
pulso                pulso                
pulverizare          pulverização         
pulverizat           pulverização         
punct                ponto                
puncție              punção               
puncțiune            punção               
punctuație           pontuação            
punctuațiune         pontuação            
punibil              punibil              
punitiv              punitivo             
pupăză               poupa                
pupilar              pupilar              
pur                  puro                 
pură                 puro                 
purces               procedeu             
purgare              purgare              
purgație             purgação             
purgatoriu           purgatório           
purifica             purificar            
purină               purina               
puritan              puritano             
puritate             pureza               
puroi                pus                  
purulent             purulento            
pusilanim            pusilanim            
pustulos             pustuloso            
putativ              putativo             
putativă             putativo             
putrefacție          putrefação           
putrescibil          putrescible          
putrid               pútrido              
puzzolană            pozolana             
quaker               quacre               
quakerism            quacrismo            
quarc                quark                
quark                quark                
quasag               quasag               
quasar               quasar               
quebracho            quebracho            
quetzal              quetzal              
rabdomanție          rabdomanţie          
rabic                raiva                
rabie                raiva                
rabin                rabino               
racemiform           racemiform           
radar                radar                
radian               radiano              
radiant              radiante             
radiație             radiação             
radiațiune           radiação             
radiator             radiador             
radical              radical              
radicalism           radicalismo          
radiciform           radiciform           
radicivor            radicivor            
radicotomie          radicotomie          
radiografie          radiografia          
radiografic          radiográfica         
radiolar             radiolarian          
radioscopie          radioscopia          
radius               raio                 
radix                raiz                 
radulă               rádula               
rafting              rafting              
ragut                ragut                
rallentando          rallentando          
rampă                rampa                
rampant              rampante             
ramură               ramo                 
rânced               rançoso              
râncezi              rançoso              
ranch                rancho               
randomiza            randomizado          
randomizare          randomização         
rapacitate           rapacidade           
rapid                rápido               
rapsodie             rapsódia             
raptus               raptus               
raritate             raridade             
râs                  riso                 
rasial               racial               
rășină               resina               
rășinos              resinoso             
rășinoase            resinoso             
rasism               racismo              
rasist               racista              
ratafia              ratafia              
rație                ração                
ratifica             ratificar            
ratificare           ratificação          
ratinare             ratinare             
rațiocina            raţiocina            
rațiocinare          raţiocinare          
rațional             racional             
raționalism          racionalismo         
raționalist          racionalista         
rațiune              razão                
râuri                rios                 
ravenă               ravina               
ravena               ravina               
ravioli              ravioli              
râde                 rir                  
re                   re                   
reactanță            reatância            
reacție              reação               
reacționar           reacionário          
reacțiune            reação               
reactiv              reativo              
reactor              reator               
real                 real                 
realizare            realização           
rebel                rebelde              
rebeliune            rebelião             
rebord               rebordo              
recalcitrant         recalcitrante        
recent               recentemente         
receptacul           receptáculo          
recepție             recepção             
receptiv             receptivo            
reces                recesso              
recesiune            recessão             
rechiziție           requisição           
recicla              reciclar             
recipe               receita              
recipiendar          recipiendar          
recipiendară         recipiendară         
recipient            recipiente           
reciprocitate        reciprocidade        
recita               recitar              
recital              recital              
recitativ            recitativo           
recrea               recrear              
recreație            recreação            
recrutare            recrutamento         
rect                 reto                 
rectangular          retangular           
rectifica            retificar            
recto                reto                 
rectocel             rectocele            
rector               reitor               
rectoscopie          rectoscopia          
rectum               reto                 
recupera             recuperar            
recurent             recorrente           
recursie             recursão             
redhibitoriu         redhibitoriu         
redibitoriŭ          redibitoriŭ          
reduce               reduzir              
reducționism         reducionismo         
reducțiune           redutível            
redundant            redundante           
redundanță           redundância          
reeligibil           reelegíveis          
refectoriu           refeitório           
referendum           referendo            
referentă            referente            
reflecta             refletir             
reflecție            reflexão             
reflector            refletor             
reflex               reflexo              
reflexie             reflexo              
reflexiv             reflexivo            
reformat             reformado            
reformator           reformador           
reformism            reformismo           
reformist            reformista           
refractar            refratário           
refracție            refração             
refracțiune          refração             
refracto             refratômetro         
refractometru        refratômetro         
refrangibil          refrangível          
refrigera            refrigerar           
refrigerație         refrigeração         
refugii              refúgios             
refugiu              refúgio              
refuta               refutar              
regalare             regalar              
regată               regata               
rege                 rei                  
regenera             regenerar            
regenerat            regenerar            
regent               regente              
regicid              regicídio            
regim                regime               
regină               rainha               
regional             regional             
regiune              região               
regn                 reino                
regresiune           regressão            
regular              regular              
regulare             regulação            
regularitate         regularidade         
regulat              regular              
reificare            reificação           
relație              relacionamento       
relațiune            relativamente        
relativ              relativamente        
relativism           relativismo          
relativist           relativista          
relaxă               relaxado             
relaxare             relaxamento          
relaxat              relaxado             
relicvă              relíquia             
religie              religião             
religios             religioso            
religiozitate        religiosidade        
religiune            religião             
rem                  rem                  
remediabil           remediável           
remediere            remediação           
remediu              remédio              
remige               rémige               
reminiscență         reminiscência        
remite               remeter              
remisiune            remissão             
remont               remont               
remontă              remonta              
remonta              remonta              
remoră               remorso              
remunerație          remuneração          
ren                  rena                 
renal                renal                
reni                 rena                 
renină               renina               
renitent             renitente            
renova               renovar              
renovat              renovado             
renovator            renovador            
rentabil             rentável             
reofil               reofil               
reofor               reofor               
reostat              reóstato             
reotropism           reotropism           
repara               reparar              
reparabil            reparável            
reparat              reparado             
reparațiune          reparação            
repatria             repatriar            
repatriere           repatriação          
repercusiune         repercussão          
repertoriu           repertório           
repeta               repetir              
repeți               repetir              
repetiție            repetição            
repetițiune          repetição            
repetitoare          repetidores          
reportaj             reportagem           
reporter             repórter             
reporteră            repórter             
reprehensibil        repreensível         
represiune           repressão            
represiv             repressivo           
represor             repressor            
reprezalii           reprezalii           
reprezenta           representar          
reprezentant         representante        
reprezentație        representação        
reprezentațiune      representação        
reprima              reprimir             
reproba              reprovar             
reprobabil           reprovável           
reprobator           reprovador           
reptil               réptil               
repugnant            repugnante           
repulsie             repulsão             
repulsiune           repulsão             
reputat              reputado             
reputație            reputação            
reputațiune          reputação            
resciziune           rescisão             
rescizoriu           rescizoriu           
rescript             rescrito             
resignare            resignare            
resolubil            resolubil            
resonator            ressoador            
resorcină            resorcinol           
respecta             respeito             
respira              respirar             
respirabil           respirável           
respirare            respiradores         
respirație           respiração           
respirațiune         respiração           
responsabil          responsável          
responsabilitate     responsabilidade     
responsoriu          responsoriu          
restaura             restaurar            
restaurație          restauração          
restaurațiune        restauração          
restaurator          restaurador          
restituție           restituição          
restituțiune         restituição          
restitutoriu         restitutoriu         
restricție           restrição            
restricțiune         restrição            
restrictiv           restritivo           
resurecție           ressurreição         
resurgență           ressurgimento        
resuscita            ressuscitar          
retablu              retábulo             
retenție             retenção             
reticență            reticência           
reticular            reticular            
reticulat            reticulado           
reticulo             retículo             
retină               retina               
retor                retor                
retoric              retórico             
retorică             retórica             
retrage              retirar              
retribuție           retribuição          
retroceda            retroceder           
retrocesiune         retrocessão          
retroflex            retroflex            
retrognatism         retrognatismo        
retrograd            retrógrada           
retrogradație        retrogradação        
retrogradațiune      retrogradação        
retrors              retrors              
reumatic             reumático            
reumatism            reumatismo           
revanșă              vingança             
revanșism            revanchismo          
revela               revelar              
revelație            revelação            
revelațiune          revelação            
reverend             reverendo            
reverendă            reverendo            
reverendisim         reverendisim         
reverență            reverência           
reversie             reversão             
reversiune           reversão             
revizie              revisão              
revizionism          revisionismo         
revizionist          revisionista         
reviziune            revisão              
revocabil            revogável            
revolut              revolute             
revoluție            revolução            
revoluțiune          revolução            
revolver             revólver             
revulsiv             revulsivo            
rezedă               resedá               
rezervat             reservado            
rezervist            reservista           
rezida               residir              
rezident             residente            
reziduu              resíduo              
rezină               resina               
rezista              resistir             
rezistent            resistente           
rezolut              resolutamente        
rezoluție            resolução            
rezolutoriu          rezolutoriu          
rezolva              resolver             
rezonabil            razoável             
rezonanță            ressonância          
rezorcină            resorcina            
rezulta              resultar             
rezultat             resultar             
rezuma               resumir              
ricoșare             ricochete            
ricoșeu              ricochete            
ricșă                riquexó              
ridicol              ridículo             
ridicul              ridículo             
rigă                 rei                  
rigid                rígido               
rigoare              rigor                
rigorist             rigorista            
riguros              rigoroso             
rimă                 rima                 
rima                 rima                 
rimel                rímel                
rinalgie             rinalgie             
rinencefal           rinencefal           
rinforzando          rinforzando          
rinichi              rim                  
rinită               rinite               
rinocer              rinoceronte          
rinolalie            rinolalie            
rinoplastie          rinoplastia          
rinoree              rinorréia            
rinotomie            rinotomie            
ripostă              riposta              
rit                  rito                 
ritidom              ritidom              
ritornelă            ritornelă            
ritual               ritual               
rival                rival                
rivală               rival                
rivalitate           rivalidade           
rixă                 rixa                 
rizibil              risível              
rizoto               risotto              
roadster             roadster             
robă                 robe                 
rober                rober                
robot                robô                 
roburit              robur                
robust               robusto              
rocă                 rocha                
rocaille             rocaille             
rocambolesc          rocambolesc          
roci                 rochas               
rococo               rococó               
rodocrozit           rhodochrosite        
rodoficee            rodoficee            
romanță              romance              
romantic             romântico            
roquefort            roquefort            
rostral              rostral              
rotacism             rotacismo            
rotație              rotação              
rotațiune            rotação              
rotativ              rotativo             
rotativă             rotativo             
rotatoriu            rotatoriu            
rotondă              rotunda              
rotulă               rótula               
roză                 rosa                 
rozacee              rosácea              
rozaceŭ              rosácea              
rozariu              rosário              
rozetă               roseta               
rubarbă              ruibarbo             
ruber                ruber                
rubescent            rubescent            
rubiaceŭ             rubiaceŭ             
rubidiu              rubídio              
rubin                rubi                 
rublă                rublo                
rucolă               rúcula               
rudiment             rudimentos           
rufianesc            rufianesc            
rugozitate           rugosidade           
ruină                arruinar             
rula                 rolar                
rulare               rolante              
ruletă               roleta               
ruminație            ruminação            
runic                rúnico               
rural                rural                
rus                  russo                
rusă                 russo                
ruse                 russo                
rușii                russos               
rustic               rústico              
rusticitate          rusticidade          
rusulă               russo                
rutilant             rutilo               
rutină               rotina               
sabotare             sabotar              
sabota               sabotar              
sacelus              sacelus              
sacerdotal           sacerdotal           
sachet               sachê                
saciform             saciform             
sacralgie            sacralgie            
sacrament            sacramento           
sacrariu             sacrariu             
sacrifica            sacrificar           
sacrificare          sacrificar           
sacrileg             sacrílego            
sacrilege            sacrilégio           
sacrilegiu           sacrilégio           
sacristan            sacristão            
sacristie            sacristia            
sacro                sacro                
sacrosanct           sacrossanto          
sacrum               sacro                
sadic                sádico               
sadism               sadismo              
saducheu             saduceu              
safari               safári               
safir                safira               
sagace               sagaz                
sagacitate           sagacidade           
șagrin               chagrém              
saia                 saia                 
sainetă              sainetă              
saladă               salada               
salam                salame               
salamandră           salamandra           
salangană            salangană            
salariu              salário              
salată               salada               
salicină             salicin              
salin                salina               
salină               salinas              
salivă               saliva               
salivare             salivar              
salivație            salivação            
salivațiune          salivação            
salmon               salmão               
salmoneloză          salmonelose          
salon                salão                
salpetru             salitre              
saltarello           saltarello           
salubru              salubre              
salutar              salutar              
salvator             salvador             
salvie               sálvia               
sămânță              semente              
șambelan             camareiro            
șampanie             champanhe            
sanatoriu            sanatório            
sanctifica           santificar           
sanctitate           santidade            
sanctuar             santuário            
sandal               sandália             
sandală              sandália             
sandarac             sandarac             
sandvici             sanduíche            
sandviș              sanduíche            
sânge                sangue               
sanguin              sanguíneo            
sanguină             sangue               
sangvin              sangue               
șansă                chance               
santinelă            sentinela            
sanviș               sanduíche            
sapient              sapiente             
sapiență             sapiente             
saponaria            saponaria            
saponifica           saponificar          
saponificare         saponificação        
saporific            saporific            
saprogen             saprogen             
sapropel             sapropel             
săptămână            semana               
sarabandă            sarabanda            
șaradă               charada              
sarcasm              sarcasmo             
sarcofag             sarcófago            
sarcolemă            sarcolema            
sarcom               sarcoma              
sarcoplast           sarcoplast           
sarcopt              sarcóptica           
sardea               sardinha             
sardonic             sardônico            
sardonice            sardônico            
șarlatan             charlatão            
șarlotă              charlotte            
sațietate            saciedade            
satin                cetim                
satinat              cetim                
satir                sátiro               
satiră               sátira               
satiri               sátiros              
satiric              satírico             
satisfacție          satisfação           
satisfacțiune        satisfação           
satrap               sátrapa              
saturabil            saturable            
saturație            saturação            
saturațiune          saturação            
saună                sauna                
savană               savana               
savarină             savarin              
saxatil              saxatil              
saxicol              saxícola             
saxifragă            saxífraga            
saxofon              saxofone             
scabros              escabroso            
scală                escala               
scalen               escaleno             
scandal              escândalo            
scandaliza           escandalizar         
scandalizat          escandalizou         
scandalos            escandaloso          
scandinav            escandinavo          
scapulalgie          scapulalgie          
scarabeŭ             escaravelho          
scarifica            escarificar          
scarificat           escarificador        
scarlatină           escarlatina          
scatol               escatol              
scenă                cena                 
scenic               cênico               
scenografie          cenografia           
sceptic              cético               
sceptru              cetro                
schelet              esqueleto            
schemă               esquema              
scherzando           scherzando           
scherzo              scherzo              
schi                 esqui                
schiere              esquiar              
schismă              cisma                
schismatic           cismático            
schooner             escuna               
sciatic              ciático              
sciatică             ciática              
scientist            cientista            
scit                 cita                 
sclav                escravo              
sclavă               escravo              
scleră               esclera              
sclerodermie         esclerodermia        
sclerot              esclerótico          
școală               escola               
scolastică           escolástica          
școli                escolas              
scopolamină          escopolamina         
scorbut              escorbuto            
scorie               escória              
scorpion             escorpião            
scotom               scotoma              
scrib                escriba              
scribomanie          scribomanie          
scrimă               esgrima              
scrofulă             escrofuloso          
scrot                escroto              
scrupul              escrúpulos           
scrupulozitate       escrupulosidade      
scrutare             scrutare             
scuamos              escamosas            
sculpta              esculpir             
sculptor             escultor             
sculptură            escultura            
sebaceŭ              sebáceo              
seboree              seborréia            
sebum                sebo                 
secat                secar                
secesiune            secessão             
sechestra            seqüestrar           
secol                século               
secret               segredo              
secretar             secretário           
secretară            secretário           
secreție             secreção             
secrețiune           segredo              
sector               setor                
sectorial            sectorial            
secular              secular              
secund               segundo              
secundă              segundo              
secundar             secundário           
secundi              segundo              
secvență             seqüência            
sedat                sedado               
sedativ              sedativo             
sedentar             sedentário           
sediment             sedimento            
sedimento            sedimento            
sedimentologie       sedimentologia       
sedițios             sedicioso            
sedițiune            sedição              
seduce               seduzir              
seducție             sedução              
șef                  chefe                
segment              segmento             
seguidilla           seguidilla           
seismo               sismo                
seismoterapie        seismoterapie        
selecție             seleção              
selenit              selenito             
sema                 sema                 
semantic             semântico            
semasiologie         semasiologia         
semestru             semestre             
seminal              seminal              
seminar              seminário            
semiologie           semiologia           
semizeŭ              semideus             
semnatar             signatário           
semnatară            signatário           
semnifica            significar           
semnificat           significava          
semnificațiune       significativamente   
semnificativ         significativamente   
sempitern            sempitern            
senar                senário              
senat                senado               
senatoare            senador              
senator              senador              
senatorial           senatorial           
senil                senil                
senilia              senil                
senina               sereno               
seninătate           serenidade           
senior               senior               
sensibil             sensível             
sensibilă            sensível             
sensibile            sensível             
sensibilitate        sensibilidade        
sensor               sensor               
sensual              sensual              
sentențios           sentencioso          
sentință             sentença             
senzor               sensor               
senzual              sensual              
sepală               sépala               
separa               separado             
separabil            separável            
separat              separadamente        
separație            separação            
separațiune          separação            
separator            separador            
separe               separado             
septemvir            septemvir            
septenal             septenal             
septi                septi                
septic               séptico              
septicemie           septicemia           
septilion            septilion            
septimă              sétimo               
septuagenar          septuagenário        
sepulcral            sepulcral            
sepulcru             sepulcru             
serafic              seráfico             
serafim              serafim              
serenisim            serenisim            
serenitate           serenidade           
sergent              sargento             
serie                série                
sericeu              sericeu              
serinetă             serinetă             
seroterapie          seroterapie          
serpentariu          serpentariu          
serpentin            serpentina           
serpiginos           serpiginos           
serv                 servo                
servi                servir               
serviciŭ             serviço              
servil               servilmente          
servire              de servir            
servit               servido              
sesie                séssil               
sesil                séssil               
sesiune              sessão               
setaceu              setaceu              
sevă                 seiva                
șeviot               cheviote             
sex                  sexo                 
sexagenar            sexagenário          
sexagenară           sexagenário          
sexism               sexismo              
sexist               sexista              
sexo                 sexo                 
sexologie            sexologia            
sextant              sextante             
sextină              sextina              
sextuplu             sextuplu             
sexual               sexual               
sferă                esfera               
sferic               esférico             
sferometru           esferômetro          
sfincter             esfíncter            
sforzando            sforzando            
sfumato              sfumato              
sgraffito            sgraffito            
sialagog             sialagog             
sibarit              sibarita             
sibilă               sibila               
sibilant             sibilante            
sibilantă            sibilante            
sibilin              sibilino             
șic                  chique               
sica                 sica                 
sicofant             sicofanta            
sicomor              sicômoro             
sideral              sideral              
sideremie            sideremia            
sideroscop           sideroscop           
sideroză             siderose             
sieși                se                   
sifilitic            sifilítico           
siflee               siflee               
sifonofor            sifonofor            
sigilo               sigilo               
sigmoid              sigmóide             
signaletic           sinalética           
signatar             signatar             
signatară            signatară            
signet               sinete               
sigur                seguro               
silabă               sílaba               
silabic              silábico             
silabus              silabus              
silențios            silencioso           
silepsă              silepsă              
silex                silex                
silicon              silicone             
siliculă             silicula             
șiling               xelim                
silogism             silogismo            
silogistic           silogística          
silogistică          silogística          
siloz                silo                 
siluetă              silhueta             
silueta              silhueta             
silurian             siluriano            
silvestru            silvestre            
silvi                silvicultura         
silvicultură         silvicultura         
silvotehnică         silvicultural        
simbioză             simbiose             
simbol               símbolo              
simbolic             simbólico            
simbolică            simbólico            
simbolie             símbolo              
simbolism            simbolismo           
simbolist            simbolista           
simetrie             simetria             
simfonic             sinfônico            
simfonie             sinfonia             
simian               símio                
simili               similaridade         
simpatie             simpatia             
simpatric            simpatria            
simplicitate         simplicidade         
simplifica           simplificar          
simplificat          simplificada         
simpotic             simpotic             
simpozion            simpósio             
simptom              sintoma              
simptomatologie      sintomas             
simula               simular              
simulacru            simulacro            
simulație            simulação            
simultan             simultaneamente      
sinagogă             sinagoga             
sinalagmatic         sinalagmatic         
sinapism             sinapismo            
sinapsă              sinapse              
sinaptic             sináptica            
sinartroză           sinartroză           
sinceritate          sinceridade          
sinciput             sinciput             
sincopă              síncope              
sincretic            sincrética           
sincronic            sincrônica           
sincronie            sincronia            
sindesmo             sindesmo             
sindesmotomie        sindesmotomie        
sindic               síndico              
sindrom              síndrome             
sine                 se                   
sinea                se                   
sinecdocă            sinédoque            
sinecură             sinecura             
sinereză             sinérese             
singular             singular             
singularitate        singularidade        
sinistra             sinistro             
sinistrocardie       sinistrocardie       
sinistru             sinistro             
sinodal              sinodal              
sinologie            sinologia            
sinonim              sinônimo             
sinonimie            sinonímia            
sinopsis             sinopse              
sinoptic             sinóptico            
sinoptică            sinóptico            
sinovie              sinovite             
sinsepal             sinsepal             
șinșilă              chinchila            
sintactic            sintático            
sintactică           sintático            
sintaxă              sintaxe              
sintetic             sintético            
sintetiza            sintetizar           
sintetizare          sintetizar           
sinucidere           suicídio             
sinuos               sinuoso              
sinus                seno                 
sionism              sionismo             
sionist              sionista             
sirenă               sereia               
sirene               sirenes              
siriacă              siríaco              
siringă              seringa              
siroco               siroco               
sistem               sistema              
sistematic           sistematicamente     
sistematică          sistemático          
sistemic             sistêmico            
sistolă              sistole              
sistolie             sistólica            
sistru               sistru               
situa                situar               
sizigie              sizigie              
slav                 eslavo               
slogan               slogan               
slovac               eslovaco             
slovacă              eslovaco             
sloven               esloveno             
slovenă              esloveno             
sloveni              esloveno             
smegmă               esmegma              
smoching             smoking              
smorzando            smorzando            
soacră               sogra                
sobrietate           sobriedade           
sobru                sóbrio               
sociabil             sociável             
social               social               
socialism            socialismo           
socialist            socialista           
socializa            socializar           
socializare          socialização         
societal             societal             
societate            sociedade            
socio                sócio                
sociolog             sociólogo            
sociologie           sociologia           
sodă                 soda                 
sodiŭ                sódio                
sodomie              sodomia              
sofa                 sofá                 
sofism               sofisma              
sofist               sofista              
sofistă              sofista              
software             software             
solaneŭ              solaneŭ              
solar                solar                
solari               solar                
solariu              solário              
solecism             solecismo            
solemn               solene               
solemnitate          solenidade           
solfatară            solfatara            
solfegiŭ             solfejo              
solicita             solicitar            
solicitare           solicitar            
solid                sólido               
solidariza           solidarizam          
solipsism            solipsismo           
solist               solista              
solistă              solista              
solitar              solitário            
solstițiŭ            solstício            
solubil              solúvel              
soluție              solução              
soluțiune            solução              
solvent              solvente             
somnambul            sonâmbulo            
somnambulă           sonambulismo         
somnolent            sonolento            
somnolență           sonolência           
sonar                sonar                
sonată               sonata               
sonet                soneto               
sonoritate           sonoridade           
soporifer            soporifer            
sopran               soprano              
soprană              soprano              
sordid               sórdido              
sorg                 sorgo                
sorgo                sorgo                
șoricel              mouse                
sortilegiu           sortilegiu           
sovietic             soviético            
șovin                chauvinista          
șovinism             chauvinismo          
spadă                espada               
spartan              espartano            
spasm                espasmo              
spațios              espaçoso             
spațiŭ               espaço               
spatulă              espátula             
special              especial             
specială             especial             
specialitate         especialidade        
specie               espécies             
specifica            especificar          
specificare          especificação        
specimen             espécime             
specios              especioso            
spectacul            espetáculo           
spectacular          espetacular          
spectator            espectador           
spectru              espectro             
specul               espéculo             
specular             especular            
specula              especular            
speculație           especulação          
speculațiune         especulação          
speleologie          espeleologia         
spera                esperança            
sperm                esperma              
spermă               esperma              
spermanțet           espermacete          
spermanțetă          espermacete          
spermatecă           spermatecă           
spermatoblast        spermatoblast        
spermatocel          espermatocele        
spermatocit          espermatócitos       
spermatogeneză       espermatogênese      
spermatozoid         espermatozóide       
spinel               espinela             
spinetă              espineta             
spinos               espinhoso            
spioană              espião               
spion                espião               
spionaj              espionagem           
spiral               espiral              
spirala              espiral              
spiraliform          espiral              
spirit               espírito             
spiritual            espiritual           
spiritualitate       espiritualidade      
spirometru           espirômetro          
spital               hospital             
splenalgie           splenalgie           
splendid             esplêndido           
splendoare           esplendor            
splenectomie         esplenectomia        
splenic              esplênico            
spleno               espleno              
splenopatie          splenopatie          
splenotomie          splenotomie          
spondiloză           espondilose          
spongie              esponjoso            
spontan              espontâneo           
sporadic             esporádico           
sporange             esporângios          
sport                esportes             
stabil               estável              
stabilitate          estabilidade         
staccato             staccato             
stagna               estagnar             
stagnare             estagnação           
stalactită           estalactite          
stalagmită           estalagmite          
stalagmometrie       stalagmometrie       
stamină              estame               
stampian             stampian             
standardizare        estandardização      
staniŭ               estanho              
static               estático             
stație               estação              
staționar            estacionário         
statistică           estatística          
stațiune             estação              
statuă               estado               
statuar              estatuária           
statuară             estatuária           
statuie              estátua              
statură              estatura             
status               estado               
stază                estase               
stearic              esteárico            
stegozaur            estegossauro         
stelar               estelar              
stelat               estrelado            
stelionat            stelionat            
stenoterm            stenoterm            
stepă                estepe               
steradian            esterradiano         
sterco               sterco               
stereografie         estereografia        
stereoscop           estereoscópio        
stereotip            estereótipo          
steril               estéril              
sterilitate          esterilidade         
sterlină             esterlino            
sterol               esteróis             
sticks               sticks               
stigmă               estigma              
stigmat              estigma              
stigmati             estigma              
știință              ciência              
stil                 estilo               
stilistică           estilística          
stimare              estimar              
stimul               estímulo             
stimula              estimular            
stimulină            stimulin             
stipendiŭ            estipêndio           
stipula              estipular            
stipulație           estipulação          
stipulațiune         estipulação          
stocastic            estocástico          
stocastică           estocástico          
stoic                estóico              
stomah               estomacal            
stomatită            estomatite           
strabotomie          strabotomie          
strangula            estrangular          
strangulare          estrangulamento      
stratagemă           estratagema          
strateg              estrategista         
strategie            estratégia           
stratosferă          estratosfera         
strepto              estreptocócica       
streptococ           estreptocócica       
stricnină            estricnina           
strict               estritamente         
stricțiune           estritamente         
strident             estridente           
stridie              ostra                
stridii              ostras               
stridor              estridor             
strofă               estrofe              
structură            estrutura            
structuralism        estruturalismo       
structuralist        estruturalista       
struț                avestruz             
stuc                 estuque              
studia               estudar              
studio               estúdio              
studios              estudioso            
studiŭ               estudar              
stupefacție          estupefação          
stupefacțiune        estupefação          
stupid               estúpido             
stupoare             estupor              
stupor               estupor              
suav                 suave                
suave                suave                
suavitate            suavidade            
subaltern            subalterno           
subiacent            subjacente           
sublim               sublime              
sublima              sublime              
sublimat             sublimado            
subliminal           subliminal           
sublimitate          sublimidade          
submerge             submergir            
submersibil          submersível          
submersiune          submersão            
subrepticiŭ          subrepticiŭ          
subrogație           sub-rogação          
subscrie             subscrever           
subsecvent           subseqüente          
subsidiar            subsidiário          
subsidiŭ             subsídio             
substanță            substância           
substanțial          substancialmente     
substanțialitate     substancialidade     
substantiv           substantivo          
substitui            substituir           
substituție          substituição         
substrat             substrato            
subteran             subterrâneo          
subterană            subterrâneo          
subterfugiŭ          subterfúgio          
subulat              subulata             
suburban             suburbano            
suburbie             subúrbio             
subversiune          subversão            
subzista             subsistir            
subzistență          subsistência         
suc                  suco                 
succeda              suceder              
succes               sucesso              
succesiune           sucessão             
succesiv             sucessivamente       
succesoare           sucessor             
succesor             sucessor             
succin               succinato            
sucomba              sucumbir             
sucțiune             sucção               
sucub                súcubo               
suculent             suculento            
sud                  sul                  
sudorific            sudorífico           
suficient            suficiente           
sufix                sufixo               
sufla                soprar               
sufoca               sufocar              
sufragiŭ             sufrágio             
sufuziune            sufusões             
sugera               sugerir              
sugestie             sugestão             
sugestiune           sugestão             
sugestiv             sugestivo            
suin                 suíno                
suk                  suk                  
sulf                 enxofre              
sulfuric             sulfúrico            
sulfuros             sulfuroso            
sultan               sultão               
sumac                sumagre              
sunnit               sunita               
superb               soberbo              
superbie             soberbamente         
superficial          superficial          
superficie           superfície           
superfluu            supérfluo            
superlativ           superlativo          
supermarket          supermercado         
superpoziție         sobreposição         
superstiție          superstição          
superstițios         supersticioso        
supinație            supinação            
supinator            supinador            
suplicare            suplicare            
supoziție            suposição            
supozitor            supositório          
supra                sobre                
suprafață            superfície           
suprarealism         surrealismo          
suprem               supremo              
supremație           supremacia           
supresiune           supressão            
suprima              suprimir             
supurație            supuração            
surdo                surdo                
surf                 surfar               
surpriză             surpresa             
susceptibil          suscetível           
suspenda             suspender            
suspensie            suspensão            
șutare               chutar               
sutură               suturar              
suvenir              souvenir             
suveran              soberano             
suzeran              suserano             
sveter               suéter               
tabac                tabaco               
tabernacol           tabernáculo          
tabernacul           tabernáculo          
tabes                tabes                
tabloid              tablóide             
tabular              tabular              
tabulare             tabular              
tabulariu            tabulariu            
tacit                tácito               
taciturn             taciturno            
tact                 tato                 
tactică              tática               
tactism              tactism              
tafia                tafiá                
tafofobie            tafofobie            
taftă                tafetá               
taiga                taiga                
tailorism            tailorism            
talalgie             talalgie             
talamo               tálamo               
talent               talento              
talion               talião               
talisman             talismã              
taliu                tálio                
taliune              taliune              
talus                talude               
tamarisc             tamarisco            
tamariscă            tamarisco            
tâmplă               templo               
tampon               tamponar             
tandem               tandem               
tangent              tangente             
tangibil             tangível             
tangou               tango                
tanin                tanino               
tantal               tântalo              
tarantelă            tarantela            
tarantulă            tarântula            
tarhon               estragão             
tarlatan             tarlatana            
taroc                tarot                
tarsalgie            tarsalgie            
tarsectomie          tarsectomie          
tarsotomie           tarsotomie           
tartă                tarte                
tarteletă            tarteletă            
tatuaj               tatuagem             
tatuat               tatuado              
taumaturgic          thaumaturgic         
tauro                tauro                
tautocron            tautocron            
tautocronă           tautocronă           
tautofonie           tautofonie           
tautomerie           tautomeria           
taxi                 táxi                 
taxidermie           taxidermia           
taxie                táxi                 
taylorism            taylorismo           
teantropie           teantrópico          
teatral              teatral              
teatro               teatro               
teatru               teatro               
tebaism              tebaism              
tecto                tecto                
tegument             tegumento            
tehnic               técnico              
teină                teína                
teism                teísmo               
teist                teísta               
teistă               teísta               
telecopia            telecopia            
telegraf             telégrafo            
telegramă            telegrama            
telematic            telemática           
telematică           telemática           
telencefal           telencéfalo          
telexist             telexist             
telur                telúrio              
temă                 tema                 
tematologie          thematological       
temeritate           temeridade           
temperament          temperamento         
temperamental        temperamental        
temperant            temperado            
temperanță           temperança           
temperat             temperado            
temperatură          temperatura          
tempestă             tempestade           
tempestuos           tempestuos           
templu               templo               
temporal             temporal             
temporală            temporal             
temporalitate        temporalidade        
temporar             temporário           
tenace               tenaz                
tenacitate           tenacidade           
tenar                tenar                
tendon               tendão               
tenesme              tenesmus             
tenie                tênia                
tenis                tênis                
tenor                tenor                
tenorino             tenorino             
tenotomie            tenotomia            
tensiune             tensão               
tentacul             tentáculo            
tentoriu             tentoriu             
teocrat              teocrata             
teocrație            teocracia            
teodolit             teodolito            
teofanie             teofania             
teologie             teologia             
teoremă              teorema              
teorie               teoria               
teozofie             teosofia             
tepidarium           tepidarium           
terapie              terapia              
terariu              terrário             
terasă               terraço              
terasa               terraço              
teratogen            teratogênico         
teratologie          teratologia          
terebint             terebinto            
terestru             terrestre            
teribil              terrível             
tericol              terrícolas           
terilenă             terylene             
terină               terrine              
teritorial           territorial          
teritoriu            território           
terme                termas               
termin               terminar             
terminal             terminal             
terminație           terminação           
terminațiune         terminação           
terminologie         terminologia         
terminus             término              
termistor            thermistor           
termoliză            termólise            
termometru           termômetro           
termostat            termóstato           
ternar               ternário             
teroare              terror               
terpenă              terpeno              
terpin               terpina              
terra                terra                
terțiar              terciário            
tesmotet             tesmotet             
test                 teste                
testaceu             testaceu             
testamentar          testamentário        
testator             testador             
testicul             testículo            
testimoniu           testemunho           
testosteron          testosterona         
tetanos              tétano               
tetină               tetina               
tetraciclină         tetraciclina         
tetracord            tetracord            
tetraedru            tetraedro            
tetralogie           tetralogia           
tetrametru           tetrâmetro           
tetrarh              tetrarca             
tetrarhie            tetrarchy            
tetravalent          tetravalente         
teurgie              teurgia              
teutonic             teutônico            
text                 texto                
textil               têxtil               
textile              têxteis              
textual              textual              
textură              textura              
teză                 tese                 
thalidomidă          talidomida           
themă                tema                 
thesis               tese                 
tiară                tiara                
tibie                tíbia                
tic                  tique                
tifoidă              tifóide              
țigară               cigarro              
tigru                tigre                
tilbury              tílburi              
timectomie           timectomia           
timid                tímido               
timol                timol                
timpan               tímpano              
timpanon             timpanon             
timus                timo                 
tinctorial           tintorial            
tinctură             tintura              
tins                 tendiam              
tip                  tipo                 
tipic                típico               
tipologie            tipologia            
tiran                tirano               
tirană               tirano               
tiranic              tirânico             
titilomanie          titilomanie          
titlu                título               
tocă                 toque                
togă                 toga                 
tolera               tolerar              
tolerabil            tolerável            
tolerant             tolerante            
toleranță            tolerância           
toluen               tolueno              
toluidină            toluidine            
tom                  tomo                 
toment               tomentose            
ton                  tom                  
tonadilla            tonadilla            
tonic                tônico               
tonică               tônico               
tonificare           tonificação          
tonifiere            tonificação          
tonsură              tonsurar             
tontină              tontina              
tonus                tom                  
top                  topo                 
topalgie             topalgie             
topaz                topázio              
topic                tópico               
topică               tópico               
topo                 topo                 
torace               tórax                
toracenteză          toracocentese        
toracoplastie        toracoplastie        
toracoscopie         toracoscopia         
toracotomie          toracotomia          
torent               torrente             
torențial            torrencial           
torid                tórrido              
tornadă              tornado              
torpoare             torpor               
torques              torques              
torță                tocha                
tortilla             tortilla             
tortuos              tortuoso             
tortuozitate         tortuosidade         
tortură              tortura              
total                total                
totalitar            totalitário          
toxic                tóxico               
toxicofobie          toxicofobie          
toxicofor            toxicofor            
toxicologie          toxicologia          
toxoplasmoză         toxoplasmose         
trabecul             trabecular           
trabeculă            trabeculado          
tracă                trácio               
tracțiune            tração               
trăda                trair                
tradiție             tradição             
traduce              traduzir             
traficant            traficante           
tragedie             tragédia             
tragic               trágico              
tragicomedie         tragicomédia         
trailer              trailer              
trambulină           trampolim            
trampolin            trampolin            
trans                trans                
transă               transe               
transacțiune         transacionar         
tranșa               tranche              
transcende           transcende           
transcendent         transcendente        
transcendență        transcendência       
transcendere         transcendendo        
transcrie            transcrever          
transcripție         transcrição          
transculturație      transculturação      
tranșee              trincheira           
tranșeie             trincheiras          
transept             transepto            
transfigura          transfigurar         
transfigurat         transfigurado        
transfix             transfixar           
transforma           transformar          
transfuziune         transfusão           
transgresiune        transgressão         
transgresor          transgressor         
transhumanță         transumância         
transige             transige             
transigent           transigent           
transit              trânsito             
transițiune          transitivo           
transitiv            transitivo           
transitoriŭ          transitório          
translucid           translúcido          
transmarin           transmarino          
transmigrație        transmigração        
transmigrațiune      transmigração        
transmisiune         transmissão          
transmuta            transmutar           
transmutație         transmutação         
transpadan           transpadan           
transparent          transparente         
transparență         transparência        
transplanta          transplantar         
transplantare        transplantação       
transporta           transportar          
transportat          transportado         
transpune            transpor             
transrenan           transrenan           
transvers            transverso           
transversal          transverso           
tranvai              tranvía              
tranzacție           transação            
tranzistor           transistor           
tranzit              trânsito             
tranziție            transição            
tranzitiv            transitivo           
tranzitoriu          transitório          
trapez               trapézio             
trapist              trapista             
tratat               tratado              
traumatic            traumático           
traumato             traumato             
travertin            travertino           
travestism           travestismo          
trecentist           trecentist           
trefilare            trefilação           
trefilat             trefilação           
treiler              treiler              
tremor               tremor               
tren                 trem                 
trenă                trem                 
trendy               trendy               
trepan               trépano              
trepidațiune         trepidação           
triadă               tríade               
triangular           triangular           
triangulare          triangulação         
trib                 tribo                
tribal               tribal               
tribulație           tribulação           
tribulațiune         tribulação           
tribun               tribuna              
tribună              tribuna              
tribunal             tribunal             
tribunat             tribunado            
tribunician          tribunício           
tribuniciar          tribuniciar          
tribut               tributo              
trichiază            triquíase            
tricolor             tricolor             
tricomicoză          tricomicoză          
tricorn              tricorn              
tricota              tricotar             
tricotat             tricotado            
trident              tridente             
triedru              triedro              
trienat              trienal              
trieniŭ              trieniŭ              
trieteridă           trieteridă           
trigemen             trigeminal           
trigonometrie        trigonometria        
trilingv             trilíngue            
trilobat             trilobat             
trilogie             trilogia             
trimestru            trimestre            
trimetru             trimetru             
trinitar             trinitário           
trio                 trio                 
tripartit            tripartido           
triplu               triplo               
triplex              triplo               
triplicat            triplicado           
triplopie            triplopie            
tripudia             tripudia             
triremă              trirreme             
tristeță             tristeza             
triton               tritão               
triturație           triturações          
triumfa              triunfo              
triumfal             triunfal             
triumfalism          triunfalismo         
triumfalist          triunfalista         
triumvir             triúnviro            
triumvirat           triunvirato          
triunf               triunfo              
triunghi             triângulo            
triunghiular         triangular           
triunvir             triunvir             
triunviral           triunviral           
trocar               trocarte             
troglo               troglo               
troglodit            troglodita           
troheŭ               troqueu              
trohiter             trohiter             
trohlee              tróclea              
troian               troiano              
troică               troika               
troleibuz            trólebus             
tromblon             tromblon             
trombon              trombone             
trombus              trombo               
tron                 trono                
tropic               trópico              
tropism              tropismo             
trubadur             trovador             
truc                 truque               
trucă                truque               
truculent            truculento           
truculență           truculento           
trufă                trufa                
trufa                trufa                
truficultor          truficultor          
truism               truísmo              
truncat              truncado             
tub                  tubo                 
tubă                 tuba                 
tuberculină          tuberculina          
tuberculoză          tuberculose          
tubul                tubo                 
tubular              tubular              
tumefia              tumefazer            
tumefiat             tumefied             
tumid                tumida               
tumoare              tumor                
tumul                túmulo               
tumular              tumulary             
tumult               tumulto              
tumultuos            tumultuoso           
tundră               tundra               
tunel                túnel                
tunică               túnica               
tunicat              tunicado             
tunicier             tunicados            
tur                  tour                 
turban               turbante             
turbid               turvo                
turbină              turbina              
turbinat             turbinada            
turbulent            turbulento           
turbulență           turbulência          
turgescență          turgor               
turism               turismo              
turist               turista              
turmalină            turmalina            
turnedo              turnedo              
turnesol             tornassol            
turnichet            torniquete           
tutelă               tutela               
tutor                tutor                
tutti                tutti                
tutu                 tutu                 
tweed                tweed                
uau                  wow                  
ubicuitate           ubiquidade           
ubicuu               ubíquo               
ubicvist             ubíquo               
udometru             udometru             
ulcerație            ulceração            
uliginos             uliginos             
ultim                último               
ultimatum            ultimato             
ultramontan          ultramontana         
uman                 humano               
umanism              humanismo            
umanist              humanista            
umanitar             humanitário          
umanitate            humanidade           
umbelă               umbela               
umbeli               umbela               
umbeliform           umbeliform           
umbo                 umbo                 
umbon                umbon                
umfla                inchar               
umil                 humilde              
umili                humilde              
umilit               humilde              
umilitate            humildade            
umoare               humor                
umor                 humor                
una                  um                   
unanimism            unanimismo           
unanimist            unanimistas          
unanimitate          unanimidade          
uncie                onça                 
uncial               uncial               
uncinat              uncinata             
unda                 onda                 
undecimă             undecimă             
undulat              ondulador            
unghi                ângulo               
ungulat              ungulados            
unguli               ungulados            
unguligrad           unguligrad           
unic                 único                
unicaul              unicaul              
unicorn              unicórnio            
unicuspid            unicúspides          
unidirecțional       unidirecional        
unifica              unificar             
unificare            unificação           
uniform              uniforme             
uniformă             uniforme             
uniformitate         uniformidade         
unipară              unipară              
unit                 unido                
unitate              unidade              
uniune               união                
univers              universo             
universal            universal            
universalii          universais           
universalitate       universalidade       
universitate         universidade         
unu                  um                   
unul                 um                   
uragan               furacão              
urano                urano                
uranoplastie         uranoplastie         
urban                urbano               
urbanitate           urbanidade           
uredospor            uredospor            
uree                 uréia                
ureometru            ureometru            
ureter               uréter               
ureterectomie        ureterectomie        
uretero              uretero              
ureterotomie         ureterotomie         
uretră               uretra               
uretralgie           uretralgie           
uretrectomie         uretrectomie         
uretroragie          uretroragie          
uretrostomie         uretrostomie         
uretrotom            urethrotomy          
uretrotomie          urethrotomy          
urgent               urgente              
urină                urina                
urina                urinar               
urinifer             urinifer             
urnă                 urna                 
urocrom              urocrom              
urologie             urologia             
urticacee            urticacee            
urticaceŭ            urticaceŭ            
urticarie            urticária            
uter                 útero                
uterin               uterino              
util                 útil                 
utila                útil                 
utilitar             utilitário           
utilitarism          utilitarismo         
utilitate            utilidade            
utopie               utopia               
utricul              utrículo             
utriculă             utrículo             
uvulă                úvula                
uxorial              uxorial              
uxoricid             uxoricid             
uzinaj               usinagem             
uzinare              usinagem             
uzucapiune           usucapião            
uzufructuar          usufrutuário         
uzufructuară         usufrutuário         
uzurpa               usurpar              
uzurpator            usurpador            
vaccin               vacina               
vaccină              vacina               
vaccinostil          vaccinostil          
vaccinoterapie       vaccinoterapie       
vacuolă              vacúolo              
vacuu                vacuu                
vacuum               vácuo                
vademecum            vade mecum           
vagabond             vagabundo            
vagabonda            vagabundo            
vagin                vagina               
vagină               vagina               
vaginoscopie         vaginoscopie         
vagotonie            vagotonia            
valent               valente              
valență              valência             
valeriană            valeriana            
valetudinar          valetudinar          
valetudinariu        valetudinariu        
valid                válido               
valida               validar              
validare             validação            
validitate           validade             
valină               valina               
valoare              valor                
valon                valão                
vals                 valsa                
valsa                valsa                
valvulă              válvula              
valvulotomie         valvulotomie         
vampă                vamp                 
vampir               vampiro              
van                  vão                  
vână                 veia                 
vandalism            vandalismo           
vanilie              baunilha             
vanilină             vanilina             
vanitate             vaidade              
vânt                 vento                
vapori               vapor                
vaporos              vaporoso             
vară                 verão                
variabil             variável             
variabilă            variável             
variat               variaram             
variație             variação             
variațiune           variação             
varice               varizes              
varicocel            varicocele           
varicos              varicoso             
variegat             variegata            
varia                variar               
varietate            variedade            
variolă              varíola              
vâsc                 visco                
vâscos               viscoso              
vascular             vascular             
vasectomie           vasectomia           
vaso                 vaso                 
vasotomie            vasotomie            
vates                vates                
vaticina             vaticina             
vaticinator          vaticinator          
vaticiniu            vaticiniu            
vedea                ver                  
vectoare             vetor                
vector               vetor                
vedere               ver                  
vegeta               vegetar              
vegetarian           vegetariano          
vegetație            vegetação            
vegetativ            vegetativo           
vehement             veementemente        
vehemență            veemência            
vehicul              veículo              
vehicular            veicular             
vehiculare           veicular             
velă                 velejar              
velar                velar                
veleitate            velejar              
velin                velino               
velit                velit                
velocitate           velocidade           
velutină             velutina             
venă                 veia                 
venal                venal                
venalitate           venalidade           
vendetă              vendeta              
venerabil            venerável            
venial               venial               
venie                vir                  
venin                veneno               
veninos              venenoso             
venos                venoso               
ventila              ventilar             
ventilație           ventilação           
ventilațiune         ventilação           
ventral              ventral              
ventricul            ventrículo           
ventriloc            ventríloquo          
ventrilocă           ventríloquo          
veratrină            veratrina            
verb                 verbo                
verbal               verbal               
verbină              verbena              
verdict              veredito             
verifica             verificar            
verificare           verificar            
verism               verismo              
vermial              vermial              
vermicid             vermicida            
vermicular           vermicular           
vermillon            vermelhão            
vermut               vermute              
vernacular           vernáculo            
vernal               vernal               
vernis               verniz               
vero                 vero                 
veronal              veronal              
vers                 verso                
versat               versado              
versificațiune       versificação         
versiune             versão               
verso                verso                
vertebră             vértebra             
vertebrat            vertebrado           
verticil             verticilo            
vertiginos           vertiginoso          
verucă               verruga              
vesperal             vesperal             
vestală              vestal               
vestalii             vestalii             
vestiar              vestiário            
vestibul             vestíbulo            
vestigiŭ             vestígio             
vestiment            vestimenta           
veteran              veterano             
veterană             veterano             
veterinar            veterinário          
vetiver              vetiver              
veto                 veto                 
vexilifer            vexilifer            
vezică               bexiga               
veziculă             vesícula             
viaduct              viaduto              
vibra                vibrar               
vibrant              vibrante             
vibrat               vibrado              
vibrație             vibração             
vibratil             vibrátil             
vibrațiune           vibração             
vibrato              vibrato              
vibrion              vibrião              
vibro                vibro                
viburn               viburn               
vicar                vigário              
vicariant            vicariato            
vicia                viciar               
vicinal              vicinal              
vicios               vicioso              
viciŭ                vício                
victimă              vítima               
victoria             vitória              
victorios            vitorioso            
video                vídeo                
videofon             videofone            
videofonie           videofone            
vigil                vigília              
vigilent             vigilante            
vigilență            vigilância           
viitorologie         futurologia          
vil                  vil                  
vilă                 vila                 
vinci                guincho              
vindicativ           vingativo            
vinicol              vinificação          
vinietă              vinheta              
violatoare           violadores           
violator             violador             
violent              violento             
violență             violência            
violină              violino              
violoncel            violoncelo           
viperă               víbora               
virago               virago               
virginal             virginal             
virginitate          virgindade           
virgulă              vírgula              
viril                viril                
virilitate           virilidade           
virtuos              virtuoso             
virtute              virtude              
virtutea             virtude              
virulent             virulento            
virulență            virulência           
virus                vírus                
vîsc                 visco                
visceralgie          visceralgie          
viscere              vísceras             
visceroptoză         visceroptoză         
visco                visco                
vîscos               viscoso              
viscoză              viscose              
vital                vital                
vitalism             vitalismo            
vitalist             vitalista            
vitalitate           vitalidade           
vitamină             vitamina             
vitellus             vitellus             
vitelo               vitelo               
viticultoare         viticulturist        
viticultor           viticulturist        
viticultură          viticultura          
vitiligo             vitiligo             
vitraliu             vitrais              
vitrifica            vitrificar           
vitrificare          vitrificação         
vitros               vítreo               
vitupera             vituperated          
vituperare           vituperare           
vivacitate           vivacidade           
vivandieră           vivandieră           
vivariu              viveiro              
vivipar              vivíparo             
vivisecție           vivissecção          
vizibil              visível              
vizibilitate         visibilidade         
vizieră              viseira              
vizionar             visionário           
vizir                vizir                
vizită               visitar              
vizita               visitar              
viziune              visão                
vizual               visual               
voaierism            voyeurismo           
voaior               voyeur               
vocabul              vocabulário          
vocabulă             vocábulo             
vocabular            vocabulário          
vocal                vocal                
vocală               vogal                
vocație              vocação              
vocațiune            vocação              
vocativ              vocativo             
voce                 voz                  
voci                 vozes                
volant               volante              
volatil              volátil              
volt                 volt                 
voltairian           voltaireano          
voltametru           voltametru           
voltamper            voltamper            
voltmetru            voltímetro           
volubil              volúvel              
volubilitate         volubilidade         
volum                volume               
voluntar             voluntário           
voluptos             voluptuoso           
voluptuos            voluptuoso           
volută               voluta               
vomer                vômer                
vomic                vomica               
vomică               vomica               
vomita               vomitar              
vomitoriu            vomitorium           
vorace               voraz                
voracitate           voracidade           
vorticism            vorticismo           
vorticist            vorticist            
vot                  votar                
votcă                vodka                
votiv                votivo               
vulcan               vulcão               
vulcanizat           vulcanizada          
vulgar               vulgar               
vulgaritate          vulgaridade          
vulgata              vulgata              
vulnerabil           vulnerável           
vulnerare            vulneraria           
vultuos              vultuos              
vulvă                vulva                
walkman              walkman              
watt                 watt                 
whisky               uísque               
windsurf             windsurf             
xantelasma           xantelasma           
xantină              xantina              
xantoderm            xantoderm            
xantopsie            xantopsia            
xenelasie            xenelasie            
xenofil              xenofil              
xenoglosie           xenoglosie           
xenolit              xenolit              
xenomanie            xenomania            
xeres                xerez                
xerofil              xerófila             
xerofilă             xerófila             
xerofit              xerofile             
xerografia           xerografia           
xerografie           xerografia           
xeroterm             xerothermal          
xeroză               xerose               
xilem                xilema               
xilen                xileno               
xilidină             xilidinas            
xilo                 xilo                 
xilocarp             xilocarp             
xilofon              xilofone             
xilograf             xilografia           
xilolatrie           xilolatrie           
xilolit              xileno               
yankeŭ               ianque               
yucca                iúca                 
yuppie               yuppie               
zaharoză             sacarose             
zămisli              conceber             
zebu                 zebu                 
zel                  zelo                 
zeolit               zeólito              
zero                 zero                 
zeŭ                  deus                 
zgură                escória              
zibelină             zibelina             
zice                 dizer                
zigomă               zigoma               
zigomorf             zigomorf             
zigzag               ziguezague           
zimotehnie           zimotehnie           
zinc                 zinco                
zincografie          zincografia          
zircon               zircão               
zirconiŭ             zircônio             
zis                  dito                 
zitum                zitum                
zlot                 zloty                
zodiac               zodíaco              
zuav                 zuavo                
