COGNATE PAIRS

ROMANIAN             SPANISH              

abac                 ábaco                
abacă                ábaco                
abandona             abandonar            
abanos               ébano                
abatesă              abadesa              
abație               abadía               
abces                absceso              
abdica               abdicar              
abdomen              abdomen              
abductor             abductor             
abecedar             abecedario           
aberație             aberración           
abil                 hábil                
abis                 abismo               
abject               abyecto              
ablațiune            ablación             
ablativ              ablativo             
abluțiune            ablución             
abnegație            abnegación           
abnegațiune          abnegación           
aboli                abolir               
abominabil           abominable           
abominațiune         abominación          
aborigen             aborigen             
abortiv              abortivo             
abrevia              abreviar             
abscisă              abscisa              
absent               ausente              
absență              ausencia             
absenteism           absentismo           
absint               ajenjo               
absoluțiune          absoluto             
absorbi              absorber             
absorbție            absorción            
absorpțiune          absorción            
abstențiune          abstención           
abstinent            abstinente           
abstinență           abstinencia          
abstract             abstracto            
abstracție           abstracción          
abstracțiune         abstracción          
abstrus              abstruso             
absurd               absurdo              
abține               abstenerse           
abținea              abstenido            
abunda               abundar              
abundență            abundancia           
abuz                 abuso                
acacie               acacia               
academie             academia             
academic             académico            
acantă               acanto               
accelera             acelerar             
accelerație          aceleración          
accelerațiune        aceleración          
accepta              aceptar              
acceptabil           aceptable            
acceptant            aceptar              
acces                acceso               
accesibil            accesible            
accident             accidente            
acetabul             acetábulo            
acid                 ácido                
acido                ácido                
aclama               aclamar              
aclamație            aclamación           
aclimatare           aclimatare           
aclimatiza           aclimatar            
aclimatizat          aclimatado           
acomoda              acomodar             
acta                 acta                 
acțiune              acción               
activ                activo               
activitate           actividad            
actuar               actuario             
acuarelă             acuarela             
acumula              acumular             
acupunctură          acupuntura           
acut                 agudo                
acuzativ             acusativo            
acva                 acuicultura          
acvariu              acuario              
acvatic              acuático             
acvifer              acuífero             
acvilă               águila               
adagiu               adagio               
adamantin            adamantino           
adamantină           adamantino           
adapta               adaptar              
adaptat              adaptado             
adecvație            adecuación           
adera                adherirse            
aderent              adherente            
adeziune             adhesión             
adiacent             adyacente            
adipos               adiposo              
adiție               adición              
adjectiv             adjetivo             
adjudecație          adjudicación         
administrație        administración       
administrațiune      administración       
administrativ        administrativo       
administrator        administrador        
admira               admirar              
admirație            admiración           
admirațiune          admiración           
admirator            admirador            
admite               admitir              
admisiune            admisión             
adolescent           adolescente          
adopta               adoptar              
adoptabil            adoptable            
adopție              adopción             
adoptiv              adoptivo             
adora                adorar               
adorabil             adorable             
adorare              adorar               
adorat               adorado              
adoratoare           adoración            
adorator             adorador             
aducțiune            aducción             
adulație             adulación            
adulațiune           adulación            
adult                adulto               
adulter              adulterio            
adultera             adúltera             
adulterin            adulterino           
advecție             advección            
adventist            adventista           
adverb               adverbio             
adverbial            adverbial            
advers               adverso              
adversar             adversario           
adversară            adversario           
adversativ           adversativo          
adversitate          adversidad           
aerosol              aerosol              
aerostat             aeróstato            
aerostatică          aerostática          
afabil               afable               
afabilitate          afabilidad           
afecta               afectar              
afectare             afectando            
afectație            afectación           
afecțiune            afecto               
afectiv              afectivo             
aferent              aferente             
afinitate            afinidad             
afirmativ            afirmativo           
aflicțiune           aflicciones          
aflictiv             aflicciones          
afluent              afluente             
aforism              aforismo             
aftă                 aftas                
afuziune             afusión              
agat                 ágata                
agent                agente               
agenție              agencia              
agil                 ágil                 
agile                ágil                 
agilitate            agilidad             
agitație             agitación            
agitațiune           agitación            
agitatoare           agitadores           
agitator             agitador             
aglutina             aglutinar            
aglutinat            aglutinar            
agogică              agógico              
agonale              agonal               
agonie               agonía               
agregație            agregación           
agregațiune          agregación           
agresiune            agresión             
agresiv              agresivo             
agresor              agresor              
agricol              agrícola             
agricola             agrícola             
agricultoare         agricultor           
agricultor           agricultor           
agricultură          agricultura          
agro                 agro                 
airbag               airbag               
airbus               aerobús              
aisberg              iceberg              
alarmă               alarma               
albatros             albatros             
albedo               albedo               
albugo               albugo               
album                álbum                
albumen              albumen              
albumină             albúmina             
aleatoriu            aleatorio            
alegație             alegación            
alegoric             alegórico            
alegorie             alegoría             
algă                 alga                 
alias                alias                
aliment              alimento             
allegretto           alegreto             
allegro              alegro               
aloe                 áloe                 
alopecie             alopecia             
alpin                alpino               
altar                altar                
altera               alterar              
alteritate           alteridad            
alternativă          alternativa          
altul                otro                 
altitudine           altitud              
altruism             altruismo            
aluminiu             aluminio             
alveolă              alveolo              
amabilitate          amabilidad           
amalgam              amalgama             
ambasadă             embajada             
ambii                ambos                
ambiant              ambiente             
ambidextru           ambidextro           
ambient              ambiente             
ambiguu              ambiguo              
ambiguitate          ambigüedad           
ambiție              ambición             
ambițios             ambicioso            
ambițiune            ambición             
ambră                ámbar                
amenitate            amenidad             
ament                amento               
ametist              amatista             
amfibol              anfíbol              
amfibologie          anfibología          
amfiteatru           anfiteatro           
amforă               ánfora               
amic                 amigo                
amiciție             amistad              
amiral               almirante            
amor                 amor                 
amplificator         amplificador         
amplitudine          amplitud             
ampulă               ampolla              
amputa               amputar              
amputație            amputación           
amputațiune          amputación           
amulet               amuleto              
amuletă              amuleto              
anabaptism           anabaptismo          
anafilaxie           anafilaxia           
anaforă              anáfora              
anahoret             anacoreta            
anahoretă            anacoreta            
analecte             analectas            
analfabet            analfabeto           
analog               análogo              
analogie             analogía             
anapest              anapesto             
anatemă              anatema              
anatomie             anatomía             
ancoră               ancla                
andante              andante              
andantino            andantino            
anecdotă             anécdota             
anelid               anélidos             
anelidă              anélidos             
aneroid              aneroide             
anex                 anexo                
anexă                anexo                
anexiune             anexión              
anghilă              anguila              
anghină              angina               
angină               angina               
anglican             anglicano            
anglofon             anglófona            
angular              angular              
anima                animar               
animalitate          animalidad           
animație             animación            
animațiune           animación            
animator             animación            
animozitate          animosidad           
anison               anís                 
aniversar            aniversario          
aniversară           aniversario          
aniversare           aniversario          
annona               anona                
anomalie             anomalía             
antarctic            antártico            
antecedent           antecedente          
antemeridian         antemeridiano        
antenă               antena               
anterior             anterior             
antic                antiguo              
antică               antiguo              
anticar              anticuario           
antichitate          antigüedad           
anticipa             anticiparse          
anticipație          anticipación         
anticipațiune        anticipación         
antidot              antídoto             
antilopă             antílope             
antimoniu            antimonio            
antinomie            antinomia            
antipatie            antipatía            
antipod              antípoda             
antirabic            rabia                
antiscian            antiscio             
antisepsie           antisepsia           
antistrofă           antistrofa           
antricot             entrecot             
anuală               anual                
anular               anular               
anunța               anunciar             
anunțare             anunciando           
anus                 ano                  
anxietate            ansiedad             
aparență             apariencia           
apartament           apartamento          
apatie               apatía               
apeduct              acueducto            
apendice             apéndice             
apendicular          apendicular          
aperitiv             aperitivo            
apertură             abertura             
apetit               apetito              
apetiție             apetito              
apetițiune           apetito              
apex                 ápice                
apicultoare          apicultor            
apicultor            apicultor            
apicultură           apicultura           
aplauda              aplaudir             
aplaudare            aplaudir             
aplauze              aplausos             
aplică               aplicar              
aplicație            aplicación           
aplicațiune          aplicación           
apocopă              apócope              
apodictic            apodíctico           
apogiatură           apoyatura            
apolog               apólogo              
apologetic           apologético          
apologetică          apologética          
apoplectic           apoplético           
apoplexie            apoplejía            
apostat              apóstata             
apostazie            apostasía            
apostolat            apostolado           
apostolic            apostólico           
apostrof             apóstrofe            
apostrofă            apóstrofe            
apoteoză             apoteosis            
apoziție             aposición            
apozițiune           aposición            
aprecia              apreciar             
apreciat             apreciado            
aprehenda            aprehenda            
april                abril                
aproba               aprobar              
apropria             apropiado            
apropriat            apropiado            
aptitudine           aptitud              
arab                 árabe                
arabă                árabe                
arbitra              arbitrar             
arbitral             arbitral             
arbitrar             arbitrario           
arbitru              árbitro              
arborescent          arborescente         
arbust               arbusto              
arc                  arco                 
arcane               arcano               
archebuză            arcabuz              
archivoltă           archivolta           
arcosolium           arcosolio            
arctic               ártico               
ardent               ardiente             
ardere               ardor                
ardoare              ardor                
arenă                arena                
areolă               areola               
argentifer           argentífero          
argilos              arcilloso            
argot                argot                
argument             argumento            
argumentație         argumentación        
arhitect             arquitecto           
arhitectă            arquitecto           
arhitectonic         arquitectónico       
arhitectură          arquitectura         
arhitravă            arquitrabe           
arhivă               archivo              
arhivoltă            arquivoltas          
arhonte              arconte              
arid                 árido                
aristă               arista               
aritmetică           aritmética           
arlechin             arlequín             
armătură             armadura             
armiger              armígero             
armonie              armonía              
armonic              armónico             
armură               armadura             
arnică               árnica               
arogant              arrogante            
aroganță             arrogancia           
arpegiu              arpegio              
arsenic              arsénico             
artă                 arte                 
arțar                arce                 
arteră               arteria              
articol              artículo             
articula             articular            
articular            articular            
articulat            articular            
artificial           artificial           
artificiu            artificio            
artilerie            artillería           
artizan              artesano             
artrită              artritis             
artritic             artrítico            
as                   as                   
asalt                asalto               
ascendent            ascendente           
ascensiune           ascenso              
asesor               asesor               
asfalt               asfalto              
asiatic              asiático             
asiduitate           asiduidad            
asimila              asimilar             
asimilație           asimilación          
asimilațiune         asimilación          
asistent             asistente            
asocia               asociar              
asociat              asociar              
aspect               aspecto              
aspersiune           aspersor             
aspira               aspirar              
aspirat              aspirar              
ăsta                 este                 
astmă                asma                 
astmatic             asmático             
astragal             astrágalo            
astral               astral               
astrofizic           astrofísica          
astrofizică          astrofísica          
astrolog             astrólogo            
astrologă            astrología           
astrologic           astrológico          
astrologie           astrología           
astronautică         astronáutica         
astronom             astrónomo            
astronomă            astronomía           
astronomic           astronómico          
astronomie           astronomía           
astuție              astuto               
asuda                sudar                
asuma                asumir               
asumpție             asunción             
asumpțiune           asunción             
atavism              atavismo             
ateu                 ateo                 
atelier              taller               
ateneu               ateneo               
atenție              atención             
atenuat              atenuar              
atestațiune          atestación           
atic                 ático                
aticism              aticismo             
atlet                atleta               
atletă               atleta               
atletic              atlético             
atom                 átomo                
atotputernicie       omnipotencia         
atracție             atracción            
atracțiune           atracción            
atractiv             atractivo            
atribut              atributo             
atribuție            atribución           
atribuțiune          atribución           
atriu                atrio                
atrium               atrio                
atroce               atroz                
atrocitate           atrocidad            
atrofie              atrofia              
auctorial            autor                
audibil              audible              
audiție              audición             
audițiune            auditor              
auditor              auditor              
augmenta             aumentar             
augmentare           aumento              
august               agosto               
augusta              augusta              
augustal             agosto               
aură                 aura                 
auricular            auricular            
aurifer              aurífero             
auscultație          auscultación         
auscultațiune        auscultación         
auspiciu             auspicios            
auster               austero              
austeritate          austeridad           
austral              austral              
autentic             auténtico            
autoare              autora               
autobuz              autobús              
autograf             autógrafo            
autonomie            autonomía            
autor                autor                
autoritate           autoridad            
auxiliar             auxiliar             
auxină               auxina               
avalanșă             avalancha            
avar                 avaro                
avariție             avaricia             
avatar               avatar               
aventură             aventura             
aversiune            aversión             
avicultoare          avicultor            
avicultor            avicultor            
avicultură           avicultura           
avid                 ávido                
avocat               abogado              
avocată              abogado              
avort                aborto               
avorta               abortar              
avulsiune            avulsión             
ax                   eje                  
axă                  eje                  
axial                axial                
axilă                axila                
axiologie            axiología            
axiomă               axioma               
axis                 eje                  
azurat               azur                 
azuriu               azur                 
babilonic            babilónico           
babuin               babuino              
bacanal              bacanal              
bacanale             bacanal              
bacantă              bacante              
bacante              bacante              
bacil                bacilo               
badminton            bádminton            
bahic                báquico              
baiaderă             bayadera             
baionetă             bayoneta             
balast               lastre               
balcon               balcón               
balistă              balista              
balnear              balneario            
balneoterapie        balneoterapia        
balsam               bálsamo              
balustru             balaustre            
banc                 banco                
banchet              banquete             
bantustan            bantustanes          
bar                  bar                  
barbă                barba                
barbar               bárbaro              
barbarie             barbarie             
barcarolă            barcarola            
baricadă             barricada            
baricadare           barricada            
baricada             barricada            
barman               barman               
bastion              bastión              
baterie              batería              
batist               batista              
bazalt               basalto              
bazilică             basílica             
beatific             beatífico            
beatifica            beatificar           
beduin               beduino              
begonie              begonia              
behaviorism          behaviorismo         
beladonă             belladona            
belicos              belicoso             
beligerant           beligerante          
beneficiar           beneficiario         
beneficiară          beneficiario         
benevolență          benevolencia         
benign               benigno              
bergamotă            bergamota            
beril                berilo               
bermă                berma                
beșamel              besamel              
bestial              bestial              
bestiar              bestiario            
bestie               bestia               
bi                   bi                   
bibliotecă           biblioteca           
bicameral            bicameral            
biceps               bíceps               
bideu                bidé                 
bienal               bienal               
bienală              bienal               
bigam                bígamo               
bilă                 bilis                
bilet                billete              
biliard              billar               
bilingv              bilingüe             
bilion               billón               
bilios               bilioso              
binar                binario              
binefăcător          benefactor           
bingo                bingo                
binocular            binocular            
biochimie            bioquímica           
biofizic             biofísico            
biofizică            biofísica            
biomecanic           biomecánica          
biomecanică          biomecánica          
bipartiție           bipartición          
birocrație           burocracia           
bis                  bis                  
bit                  bit                  
bitum                betún                
bitumen              betún                
bituminos            bituminoso           
biuretă              bureta               
bivol                búfalo               
bizantin             bizantino            
bizon                bisonte              
blasfemia            blasfemia            
blasfemie            blasfemia            
blazon               blasón               
bloca                bloquear             
blocare              bloquear             
bluză                blusa                
bluza                blusa                
boa                  boa                  
bobină               bobina               
bobina               bobina               
boltă                bóveda               
bompres              bauprés              
borax                bórax                
boreal               boreal               
botulism             botulismo            
bovin                bovino               
bovină               bovino               
bractee              brácteas             
bracteie             brácteas             
brahial              braquial             
branhie              branquia             
breșă                brecha               
bridă                brida                
brigadă              brigada              
briză                brisa                
brocart              brocado              
bronhie              bronquio             
bronz                bronce               
broșă                broche               
broșare              brochado             
brut                 bruto                
brută                bruto                
brutal               brutal               
bucale               boca                 
buclă                bucle                
bucolic              bucólico             
bucolică             bucólico             
budincă              pudín                
bufet                bufé                 
bufon                bufón                
bufona               bufón                
bulbo                bulbo                
bulină               bolina               
buncăr               búnker               
burg                 burgo                
burin                buril                
busolă               brújula              
bust                 busto                
butelie              botella              
cabalină             caballo              
cabină               cabina               
cabinet              gabinete             
cabriolă             cabriola             
cabriolet            cabriolé             
cabrioletă           cabriolé             
căca                 cagando              
cadență              cadencia             
cadet                cadete               
cadrilater           cuadrilátero         
caduc                caduco               
caduceu              caduceo              
caiet                cuaderno             
calcaneu             calcáneo             
calcula              calcular             
calendar             calendario           
calibru              calibre              
caliciu              cáliz                
calico               calicó               
califica             calificar            
caligramă            caligramas           
calitativ            cualitativo          
calomnia             calumnia             
calomniator          calumniador          
calomnios            calumnioso           
calorific            calorífico           
calorimetru          calorímetro          
calos                calloso              
calvar               calvario             
calviție             calvicie             
camfor               alcanfor             
cămilă               camello              
camion               camión               
câmp                 campo                
campană              campaña              
campioană            campeón              
campion              campeón              
campus               campus               
camuflare            camuflar             
canal                canal                
canale               canales              
cancan               cancán               
cancer               cáncer               
când                 cuando               
candidat             candidato            
candidată            candidato            
caneforă             canéfora             
cangrenă             gangrena             
cangur               canguro              
canicular            canicular            
canin                canino               
caniș                caniche              
canonic              canónico             
canoniza             canonizar            
cantabile            cantabile            
cantată              cantata              
cantilenă            cantilena            
cantină              cantina              
cantitate            cantidad             
cantor               cantor               
cantus               canto                
canulă               cánula               
caolin               caolín               
capă                 capa                 
capacitate           capacidad            
căpățână             cabeza               
cape                 capa                 
caperă               alcaparra            
capilar              capilar              
capital              capital              
capitală             capital              
capitație            capitación           
capitațiune          capitación           
capitol              capítulo             
capotă               capó                 
capotare             capotare             
capote               capó                 
capriciu             capricho             
caprin               caprina              
caprină              cabras               
capsulă              cápsula              
captiv               cautivo              
captiva              cautivar             
caracter             carácter             
carat                quilate              
carate               quilate              
caravană             caravana             
carbon               carbono              
carbonifer           carbonífero          
cardan               cardán               
cardinal             cardinal             
cardinale            cardinal             
carie                caries               
caricatură           caricatura           
carilon              carillón             
caritate             caridad              
carlingă             carlinga             
carnal               carnal               
carnaval             carnaval             
carnivor             carnívoro            
cărnos               carnoso              
carp                 carpo                
cartă                carta                
carte                libro                
cartilaj             cartílago            
cartular             cartulario           
carusel              carrusel             
cascadă              cascada              
caseină              caseína              
cașet                caché                
cast                 casto                
castel               castillo             
castelan             castellano           
castelană            castellano           
castitate            castidad             
castor               castor               
castra               castrar              
castrație            castradora           
castrațiune          castradora           
cataclism            cataclismo           
catalepsie           catalepsia           
cataleptic           cataléptico          
catalog              catálogo             
catamaran            catamarán            
cataplasmă           cataplasma           
catar                catarro              
cataractă            catarata             
catastrofă           catástrofe           
categorie            categoría            
catenă               cadena               
catetă               cateto               
cateter              catéter              
catolic              católico             
caud                 caudal               
cauda                cauda                
caudal               caudal               
caustic              cáustico             
caustică             cáustico             
cautelă              cautela              
cauză                causar               
cauzal               causal               
cauza                causar               
cavă                 cava                 
cavernă              caverna              
cavernos             cavernoso            
cavitate             cavidad              
cavitație            cavitación           
cazeină              caseína              
cazinou              casino               
cazual               casual               
cedru                cedro                
cefalic              cefálica             
celebra              celebrar             
celebritate          celebridad           
celeritate           celeridad            
celest               celeste              
celibat              celibato             
cella                cella                
celofan              celofán              
celul                célula               
celulă               célula               
celulită             celulitis            
celuloid             celuloide            
cement               cemento              
cenobit              cenobitas            
cenotaf              cenotafio            
cens                 censo                
centaur              centauro             
centenar             centenario           
central              central              
centru               centro               
centri               centros              
centurion            centurión            
cenzură              censura              
cereal               cereal               
cereală              cereal               
cerebel              cerebelo             
cerebro              cerebro              
ceremonie            ceremonia            
certifica            certificar           
cervical             cervical             
cervix               cerviz               
cesiu                cesio                
cetacee              cetáceos             
cezură               cesura               
chestor              cuestor              
chil                 quilo                
chilă                quilla               
chintet              quinteto             
chioșc               quiosco              
chirurgie            cirugía              
cibernetică          cibernética          
cicatrice            cicatriz             
cicerone             cicerone             
ciclic               cíclico              
ciclism              ciclismo             
ciclist              ciclista             
ciclu                ciclo                
cidru                sidra                
cilindri             cilindros            
cilindru             cilindro             
cimitir              cementerio           
cîmp                 campo                
cimpanzeu            chimpancé            
cinabru              cinabrio             
cincinal             quinquenal           
cineast              cineasta             
cinerar              cinerario            
cinerară             cinerario            
cineraria            cineraria            
cingulo              cíngulo              
cingulum             cíngulo              
cinic                cínico               
cinism               cinismo              
cioară               cuervo               
cip                  chip                 
circ                 circo                
circuit              circuito             
circula              circular             
circular             circular             
circulară            circular             
circulator           circulatorio         
circulatoriŭ         circulatorio         
circumcide           circuncidar          
circumcizie          circuncisión         
circumciziune        circuncisión         
circumferență        circunferencia       
circumferință        circunferencia       
circumflex           circunflejo          
circumscrie          circunscribir        
circumspect          circunspecto         
circumspecție        circunspección       
circumspecțiune      circunspección       
circumstanță         circunstancia        
cirrus               cirro                
cirus                cirro                
cis                  cis                  
cisalpin             cisalpino            
cistă                cista                
cită                 citado               
citadelă             ciudadela            
cita                 citar                
citat                citar                
citație              citación             
citrin               citrino              
civic                cívico               
civil                civil                
civilitate           civilidad            
clan                 clan                 
clandestin           clandestino          
clapon               capón                
claritate            claridad             
clasă                clase                
clasic               clásico              
claudicație          claudicación         
claustr              claustro             
claustra             claustro             
claustrofobie        claustrofobia        
claustru             claustro             
clavar               clavar               
claviculă            clavícula            
clement              clemente             
clemență             clemencia            
cler                 clero                
cleric               clérigo              
clerical             clerical             
client               cliente              
clientă              cliente              
clientelă            clientela            
climă                clima                
clinic               clínico              
clinică              clínica              
cliper               clíper               
clișeu               cliché               
clistron             klystron             
cloacă               cloaca               
clorofilă            clorofila            
club                 club                 
coabita              cohabitar            
coagula              coagular             
coagulat             coagulada            
coaliție             coalición            
coalițiune           coalición            
coarctație           coartación           
cobalt               cobalto              
coccix               cóccix               
cocs                 coque                
coda                 coda                 
codex                códice               
codicil              codicilo             
coerent              coherente            
coerență             coherencia           
coetern              coeterno             
coeziune             cohesión             
cognațiune           cognación            
cogniție             cognición            
cognoscibil          conocible            
cohlee               cóclea               
cohortă              cohorte              
colabora             colaborar            
colaps               colapso              
colateral            colateral            
colaterală           colateral            
colațiune            colación             
colecție             colección            
colecțiune           colección            
colectiv             colectivo            
colectivă            colectivo            
coleg                colega               
colegă               colega               
colegiu              colegio              
colesterol           colesterol           
colică               cólico               
colină               colina               
coliziune            colisión             
coloană              columna              
colocviu             coloquio             
colofon              colofón              
colonel              coronel              
color                color                
colos                coloso               
colostru             calostro             
columnă              columna              
coluziune            colusión             
comă                 coma                 
combina              combinar             
combină              combinar             
combinație           combinación          
combinațiune         combinación          
comburant            comburente           
comburent            comburente           
combustie            combustión           
coma                 coma                 
comedie              comedia              
comemora             conmemorar           
comensal             comensal             
comenta              comentario           
comentare            comentario           
comentariu           comentario           
comerț               comercio             
comestibil           comestible           
cometă               cometa               
comic                cómico               
comitat              condado              
comite               cometer              
comitet              comité               
compact              compacto             
compacta             compacto             
compara              comparar             
comparabil           comparable           
comparație           comparación          
comparațiune         comparación          
comparativ           comparativo          
compasiune           compasión            
compatrioată         compatriota          
compatriot           compatriota          
compendiu            compendio            
compensa             compensar            
compensat            compensado           
compensație          compensación         
compensațiune        compensación         
competent            competente           
competitor           competidor           
compila              compilar             
compilație           compilación          
compilațiune         compilación          
compilatoare         compilador           
compilator           compilador           
completiv            completivo           
completivă           completivo           
complex              complejo             
complexa             complejo             
complica             complicar            
complicație          complicación         
complicațiune        complicación         
comporta             comportarse          
compot               compota              
compozit             compuesto            
compozită            compuesto            
compoziție           composición          
compozitor           compositor           
compresibil          compresible          
compresiune          compresión           
compresor            compresor            
comprima             comprimir            
compulsare           compulsare           
compulsie            compulsión           
compune              componer             
comun                común                
comunal              comunal              
comunica             comunicarse          
comunicabil          comunicable          
comunicație          comunicación         
comunicațiune        comunicación         
comunicativ          comunicativo         
comunitate           comunidad            
comuniune            comunión             
comutație            conmutación          
con                  cono                 
concatenație         concatenación        
concavitate          concavidad           
concede              conceder             
concepe              concebir             
concept              concepto             
concepție            concepción           
concepțiune          concepción           
concesie             concesión            
concesiune           concesión            
conchide             concluir             
conchidere           concluir             
conciliație          conciliador          
conciliațiune        conciliación         
conciliator          conciliador          
concis               conciso              
conclav              cónclave             
conclude             concluir             
concludent           concluyente          
concluzie            conclusión           
concomitant          concomitante         
concomitent          concomitante         
concordat            concordato           
concordia            concordia            
concordie            concordia            
concrețiune          concreción           
concubină            concubina            
concupiscent         concupiscente        
concupiscență        concupiscencia       
condamna             condenar             
condamnat            condenar             
condensa             condensar            
condensat            condensado           
condițiune           condición            
condominiu           condominio           
condotier            condotiero           
conduce              conducir             
conductor            conductor            
conexare             conexión             
conexiune            conexión             
confecție            confección           
confecțiune          confección           
confederație         confederación        
confederațiune       confederación        
conferi              conferir             
conferință           conferencia          
confesiune           confesión            
confesor             confesor             
confete              confeti              
confeti              confeti              
configura            configurar           
configurat           configurado          
configurație         configuración        
confirma             confirmar            
confirmație          confirmación         
confirmațiune        confirmación         
confisca             confiscar            
confitură            confitura            
conflagrație         conflagración        
conflagrațiune       conflagración        
conflict             conflicto            
conflua              confluente           
confluent            confluente           
confluență           confluencia          
conform              conforme             
conformație          conformación         
conformațiune        conformación         
conformitate         conformidad          
confunda             confundir            
confuzie             confusión            
confuziune           confusión            
congela              congelar             
congener             congénere            
congenital           congénito            
congestie            congestión           
conglomerație        conglomeración       
conglutina           conglutina           
conglutinare         conglutinare         
congratulare         congratulare         
congregație          congregación         
congregațiune        congregación         
congres              congreso             
congruent            congruente           
congruență           congruencia          
conifer              conífera             
conjectură           conjetura            
conjugal             conyugal             
conjunct             conjunto             
conjuncție           conjunción           
conjunctiv           conjuntivo           
conjunctură          coyuntura            
conjura              conjurar             
consacra             consagrar            
consangvin           consanguínea         
consangvinitate      consanguinidad       
consecință           consecuencia         
consecuție           consecución          
consecutiv           consecutivo          
consecutivă          consecutivo          
consens              consenso             
conservațiune        conservador          
conservator          conservador          
considera            considerar           
considerație         consideración        
consilier            consejero            
consilieră           consejero            
consiliu             consejo              
consista             consiste             
consistent           consistente          
consistoriu          consistorio          
consoană             consonante           
consoartă            consorte             
consolă              consolar             
consomme             consomé              
consonant            consonante           
consonanță           consonancia          
consort              consorte             
consorțiu            consorcio            
conspira             conspirar            
conspirație          conspiración         
conspirațiune        conspiración         
constant             constante            
constanță            constancia           
constante            constante            
constela             constelación         
constelație          constelación         
constelațiune        constelación         
consternație         consternación        
consternațiune       consternación        
constituit           constituido          
constituție          constitución         
constrânge           constreñir           
constrâns            constreñido          
constricție          constricción         
constrictiv          constrictiva         
constrictivă         constrictiva         
construcție          construcción         
construcțiune        construcción         
constructor          constructor          
construi             construir            
consubstanțial       consustancial        
consubstanțialitate  consustancialidad    
consul               cónsul               
consular             consular             
consulat             consulado            
consult              consultar            
consuma              consumir             
contact              contacto             
contagios            contagioso           
contagiune           contagio             
contamina            contaminar           
contaminat           contaminado          
contempla            contemplar           
contemplație         contemplación        
contemplativ         contemplativo        
contemporan          contemporáneo        
context              contexto             
contiguu             contiguo             
conține              contener             
continent            continente           
continență           continencia          
contingent           contingente          
contingență          contingencia         
continua             continuar            
continuitate         continuidad          
continuu             continuo             
contrabas            contrabajo           
contract             contrato             
contracție           contracción          
contradicție         contradicción        
contradicțiune       contradicción        
contradictor         contradicción        
contradictoriu       contradictorio       
contrar              contrario            
contrariu            contrario            
contrazice           contradecir          
contribui            contribuir           
contribuție          contribución         
control              controlar            
controla             controlar            
controlat            controlado           
controversă          controversia         
contubernal          contubernal          
contumacie           contumacia           
conturbare           conturbare           
contuzie             contusión            
contuziune           contusión            
conul                cono                 
conurbație           conurbación          
convalescent         convaleciente        
convalescență        convalecencia        
convecție            convección           
convenient           conveniente          
convent              convento             
convenție            convención           
convențional         convencional         
convențiune          convención           
converge             converger            
convergent           convergente          
convers              convergente          
conversa             conversar            
conversație          conversación         
conversațiune        conversación         
conversiune          conversión           
converti             convertir            
convertibil          convertible          
convertit            convertir            
convex               convexo              
convexitate          convexidad           
convinge             convencer            
convins              convencido           
convoi               convoy               
coopera              cooperar             
cooperațiune         cooperación          
cooperator           cooperador           
coordinațiune        coordinación         
copios               copioso              
copulativ            copulativo           
cord                 corazón              
cordi                corazón              
cordiform            cordiforme           
corecție             corrección           
corecțiune           corrección           
corectoare           corrección           
corector             corrector            
corectură            corrección           
corija               corregir             
corimb               corimbo              
corindon             corindón             
corion               corion               
corium               corion               
cormoran             cormorán             
coroană              corona               
corobora             corroborar           
coroda               corroer              
corodat              corroído             
corolă               corola               
corolar              corolario            
corona               corona               
coronal              coronal              
coronar              coronario            
coronară             coronario            
corosiv              corrosivo            
coroziune            corrosión            
coroziv              corrosivo            
corp                 cuerpo               
corpolent            corpulento           
corpolență           corpulencia          
corporal             corporal             
corporațiune         corporación          
corpulent            corpulento           
corpulență           corpulento           
corpus               cuerpo               
corpuscul            corpúsculo           
corset               corsé                
corticoterapie       corticosteroides     
cortină              cortina              
corupt               corrupto             
coruptibil           corruptible          
coruptibilitate      corruptibilidad      
corupție             corrupción           
corupțiune           corrupción           
coruptor             corrupción           
corvetă              corbeta              
cosmic               cósmico              
cosmograf            cosmógrafo           
cosmografă           cosmografía          
cost                 costo                
costal               costal               
cotilion             cotillón             
coturn               coturno              
coxă                 coxa                 
crampă               calambre             
craniu               cráneo               
crap                 carpa                
cras                 craso                
crasă                craso                
crater               cráter               
crea                 crear                
creație              creación             
creațiune            creación             
creator              creador              
creatură             criatura             
credibil             creíble              
credit               crédito              
credo                credo                
credul               crédulo              
credulitate          credulidad           
creier               cerebro              
cremă                crema                
cremațiune           cremación            
crepitațiune         crepitación          
creps                creps                
crepuscul            crepúsculo           
crescendo            crescendo            
cretin               cretino              
criminal             criminal             
criptă               cripta               
cristal              cristal              
cristalin            cristalino           
criză                crisis               
crocodil             cocodrilo            
crom                 cromo                
croma                cromo                
cromo                cromo                
cronic               crónico              
croșet               croché               
crucial              crucial              
crucifer             crucíferas           
cruciferă            crucíferas           
crucifix             crucifijo            
crupă                grupa                
crupier              crupier              
crural               crural               
crustacee            crustáceos           
cuarț                cuarzo               
cŭartet              cuarteto             
cuaternar            cuaternario          
cub                  cubo                 
cubic                cúbico               
cubică               cúbico               
cubism               cubismo              
cubital              cubital              
cucurbitacee         cucurbitáceas        
culi                 culi                 
culinar              culinario            
culmen               culmen               
culmina              culminará            
culoare              color                
culpă                culpa                
culpabil             culpable             
cult                 culto                
cultură              cultura              
cumpăra              comprar              
cumpărare            comprar              
cumulus              cúmulo               
cuneiform            cuneiforme           
cupiditate           codicia              
cuplet               copla                
cupolă               cúpula               
cupon                cupón                
cupru                cobre                
curabil              curable              
cura                 curar                
curatelă             tutela               
curent               corriente            
curenta              corriente            
curial               curial               
curios               curioso              
curiozitate          curiosidad           
curs                 curso                
cursoare             cursores             
cursor               cursor               
cuspidă              cúspide              
cuspidi              cúspides             
custode              custodio             
custodie             custodia             
cusutură             costuras             
cuticulă             cutícula             
cvadragenar          cuadragenario        
cvadrant             cuadrante            
cvadratură           cuadratura           
cvadrienal           cuadrienal           
cvadruman            cuadrúmanos          
cvadruplu            cuádruple            
cvadrupla            cuádruple            
cvartet              cuarteto             
cvasi                casi                 
cvintet              quinteto             
cvorum               quórum               
dadaism              dadaísmo             
dalmatic             dalmático            
dalmatică            dalmático            
damă                 dama                 
dare                 dando                
dativ                dativo               
de                   de                   
debil                débil                
debilita             debilitar            
debilitare           debilidad            
debilitat            debilitado           
debilitate           debilidad            
debitor              deudor               
debut                debut                
debutare             debutare             
decadă               década               
decalog              decálogo             
decan                decano               
decană               decano               
decapita             decapitar            
decapitat            decapitado           
decembrie            diciembre            
decenal              decenal              
decență              decencia             
decenviral           decenviral           
decepție             decepción            
decepțiune           decepción            
decide               decidir              
decizie              decisión             
declamație           declamación          
declara              declarar             
declarație           declaración          
declarațiune         declaración          
declarativ           declarativo          
declinație           declinación          
declinațiune         declinación          
decoct               decocción            
decocție             decocción            
decocțiune           decocción            
decorum              decoro               
decrepit             decrépito            
decrepita            decrépito            
decrescendo          decrescendo          
decret               decreto              
decubit              decúbito             
decumbent            decumbente           
dedica               dedicar              
dedicat              dedicado             
dedicație            dedicación           
dedicațiune          dedicación           
deduce               deducir              
deductiv             deductivo            
dedus                deducida             
defeca               defecar              
defecație            defecación           
defecațiune          defecación           
defect               defecto              
deferent             deferente            
deficient            deficiente           
deficiență           deficiencia          
defini               definir              
definit              definida             
definiție            definición           
definițiune          definición           
deflagrație          deflagración         
deflație             deflación            
deforestare          deforestación        
deforma              deformar             
deformat             deformado            
deformațiune         deformación          
defrauda             defraudar            
defraudare           defraudare           
defraudat            defraudado           
degenera             degenerar            
degenerat            degenerar            
degetar              dedal                
degrada              degradar             
degradat             degradado            
dehiscent            dehiscente           
deifica              deificar             
deism                deísmo               
deist                deísta               
delatoare            delator              
delator              delator              
delega               delegar              
delegat              delegar              
delegată             delegado             
delegație            delegación           
delfin               delfín               
delfinul             delfín               
deliberativ          deliberativo         
delicat              delicado             
delicios             delicioso            
delicvescent         delicuescente        
delincvent           delincuente          
delineare            delineare            
delir                delirio              
delira               delirar              
delirare             delirare             
deltaic              deltaico             
dement               demente              
demență              demencia             
demn                 digno                
demnitate            dignidad             
demola               demoler              
demolat              demolido             
demonstrabil         demostrable          
demonstrație         demostración         
demonstrativ         demostrativo         
denar                denario              
denigra              denigrar             
denominație          denominación         
denominațiune        denominación         
denominativ          denominativo         
denota               denotar              
denotat              denotado             
denotație            denotación           
dens                 denso                
densi                denso                
densitate            densidad             
dental               dental               
dentală              dental               
dentiție             dentición            
dentițiune           dentición            
denunța              denunciar            
departament          departamento         
depila               depilarse            
depilat              depilado             
deplora              deplorar             
deplorabil           deplorable           
deponent             deponente            
depopula             despoblar            
deporta              deportar             
deportat             deportados           
depozit              depósito             
depozitar            depositario          
deprava              depravar             
depresiune           depresión            
deprima              deprimir             
deriva               derivar              
derivație            derivación           
derivațiune          derivación           
deroga               derogar              
derviș               derviche             
descinde             descender            
descins              descendido           
descripție           descripción          
descriptiv           descriptivo          
descriptor           descriptor           
descuama             descamarse           
descuamat            descamarse           
destructiv           destructivo          
destructor           destructor           
detaliu              detalle              
detașa               destacar             
detectiv             detective            
deteriorat           deteriorado          
determina            determinar           
determinațiune       determinación        
detestabil           detestable           
detracta             detractor            
detracțiune          detractor            
detractoare          detractor            
detractor            detractor            
detriment            detrimento           
detritus             detrito              
devasta              devastar             
devastat             devastado            
devastator           devastador           
devia                desviar              
deviație             desviación           
deviațiune           desviación           
devoluțiune          devolución           
devora               devorar              
devorant             devorando            
devorare             devorando            
devoțiune            devoción             
dexter               diestro              
dextrină             dextrina             
dextrogir            dextrógiro           
dezerțiune           desertor             
dezertoare           desertor             
dezertor             desertor             
diabolic             diabólico            
diacon               diácono              
diaconal             diaconal             
diademă              diadema              
diafragmă            diafragma            
diagonal             diagonal             
diagonală            diagonal             
dialect              dialecto             
dialectic            dialéctico           
dialectică           dialéctica           
dialog               diálogo              
diametru             diámetro             
diaree               diarrea              
diareie              diarrea              
diastolă             diástole             
diatribă             diatriba             
dicta                dictar               
dictat               dictar               
dictatoare           dictador             
dictator             dictador             
dictatură            dictadura            
dicționar            diccionario          
dieceză              diócesis             
diereză              diéresis             
dietă                dieta                
diferență            diferencia           
dificil              difícil              
dificultate          dificultad           
difuziune            difusión             
digera               digerir              
digestibil           digestible           
digestie             digestión            
digestiv             digestivo            
digit                dígito               
digital              digital              
digitală             digital              
digresiune           digresión            
dijmă                diezmo               
dilatator            dilatador            
dilatoriu            dilatorio            
dilemă               dilema               
diletant             diletante            
diletantă            diletante            
diligent             diligente            
diligență            diligencia           
diluțiune            dilución             
diluvium             diluvio              
diminua              disminuir            
diminutiv            diminutivo           
diminutiva           diminutivo           
dinar                dinar                
dioceză              diócesis             
dionisiac            dionisíaco           
diplomă              diploma              
dipter               díptero              
direcție             dirección            
direcțiune           dirección            
director             director             
discerne             discernir            
disciplină           disciplina           
discipol             discípulo            
discipul             discípulo            
discordare           discordare           
discordia            discordia            
discordie            discordia            
discrepanță          discrepancia         
discret              discreto             
discreție            discreción           
discrețiune          discreto             
discrimina           discriminar          
discriminare         discriminación       
discurs              discurso             
discuta              discutir             
discuție             discusión            
disecție             disección            
disemina             diseminar            
diseminat            diseminado           
disensiune           disensión            
disertație           disertación          
disident             disidente            
disidență            disidencia           
disimula             disimular            
disjuncție           disyunción           
disjunctiv           disyuntivo           
disjunctivă          disyuntivo           
disocia              disociar             
disociație           disociación          
disoluție            disolución           
disonanță            disonancia           
dispepsie            dispepsia            
dispers              disperso             
dispersie            dispersión           
dispersiv            dispersión           
dispnee              disnea               
dispneie             disnea               
dispozitiv           dispositivo          
disputare            disputare            
distant              distante             
distanță             distancia            
distensie            distensión           
distih               dístico              
distinct             distinto             
distincție           distinción           
distinge             distinguir           
distorsiune          distorsión           
distribui            distribuir           
distribuție          distribución         
distributiv          distributivo         
district             distrito             
distrugător          destructor           
ditiramb             ditirambo            
ditirambic           ditirámbico          
diuretic             diurético            
diurn                diurno               
divaga               divagar              
divagare             divagar              
diverge              divergir             
divergent            divergente           
divers               diverso              
diversifica          diversificar         
diversitate          diversidad           
diverticul           divertículo          
divide               dividir              
dividend             dividendo            
divin                divino               
divinitate           divinidad            
diviz                división             
divizibil            divisible            
divizionism          divisionismo         
diviziune            división             
divizor              divisor              
divorț               divorcio             
divulgator           divulgador           
dizenterie           disentería           
dizolva              disolver             
docil                dócil                
docilitate           docilidad            
doctor               doctor               
doctrină             doctrina             
doctrinal            doctrinal            
document             documento            
doge                 dux                  
dogmă                dogma                
dogmatic             dogmático            
dogmatică            dogmático            
dolar                dólar                
dolmen               dolmen               
doloric              dolor                
domesticitate        domesticidad         
domina               dominar              
dominat              dominado             
dominație            dominación           
dominical            dominical            
donație              donación             
doric                dórico               
dormi                dormir               
dormitoare           dormitorio           
dormitor             dormitorio           
dotă                 dote                 
dotal                dotal                
dramă                drama                
dramatic             dramático            
drenă                drenar               
drenaj               drenaje              
drena                drenar               
dromader             dromedario           
druid                druida               
drupă                drupa                
dual                 dual                 
dualitate            dualidad             
dubitativ            dubitativo           
dubitativă           dubitativo           
dublă                doble                
dublu                doble                
ducal                ducal                
ductil               dúctil               
duel                 duelo                
duet                 dueto                
duo                  dúo                  
duoden               duodeno              
duplex               dúplex               
duplica              duplicar             
duplicație           duplicación          
duplicitate          duplicidad           
durabil              durable              
duramater            duramadre            
duramen              duramen              
duritate             dureza               
duș                  ducha                
duumvirat            duunvirato           
duunvir              duunvir              
e                    e                    
ebuliometru          ebullómetro          
ebuliție             ebullición           
ebulițiune           ebullición           
echilater            equilátero           
echin                equino               
echină               equino               
echinocțial          equinoccial          
echinocțiu           equinoccio           
echipat              equipado             
echitate             equidad              
echitație            equitación           
echitațiune          equitación           
echivalent           equivalente          
echivoca             equívoco             
ecleziastic          eclesiástico         
eclipsă              eclipse              
ecloziune            eclosión             
economic             económico            
economie             economía             
ecou                 eco                  
ecuație              ecuación             
ecŭațiune            ecuación             
ecuator              ecuador              
ecumenic             ecuménico            
ecvestru             ecuestre             
ecvin                equino               
edict                edicto               
edicule              edículo              
edificiu             edificio             
edit                 editar               
edita                editar               
ediție               edición              
edițiune             editor               
editoare             editores             
editor               editor               
educa                educar               
educație             educación            
educațiune           educación            
educator             educador             
efect                efecto               
efector              efector              
eferent              eferente             
efervescent          efervescente         
eficace              eficaz               
eficient             eficiente            
eficiență            eficiencia           
efigie               efigie               
eflorescent          eflorescente         
efluviu              efluvio              
efuzie               efusión              
efuziune             efusión              
egal                 igual                
egala                igual                
egalitate            igualdad             
egidă                égida                
eglogă               égloga               
ego                  ego                  
egocentrism          egocentrismo         
egoism               egoísmo              
elabora              elaborar             
elaborat             elaborar             
elastic              elástico             
eleatic              eleática             
electiv              electivo             
electric             eléctrico            
electrocuta          electrocutar         
electrod             electrodo            
elefantiazis         elefantiasis         
elegant              elegante             
eleganță             elegancia            
elegiac              elegíaco             
elegie               elegía               
element              elemento             
eleron               alerón               
elevație             elevación            
elice                hélice               
elimina              eliminar             
elipsă               elipse               
elită                élite                
eliziune             elisión              
elocință             elocuencia           
elocŭent             elocuente            
elocuțiune           elocución            
elocvent             elocuente            
elocvență            elocuencia           
elogiu               elogio               
elongație            elongación           
eluda                eludir               
emana                emanar               
emanație             emanación            
emanațiune           emanación            
emancipa             emancipar            
emancipat            emancipado           
emancipație          emancipación         
emancipațiune        emancipación         
emblemă              emblema              
emersiune            emersión             
emetic               emético              
emigra               emigrar              
emigrație            emigración           
emigrațiune          emigración           
eminent              eminente             
eminență             eminencia            
emir                 emir                 
emisar               emisario             
emisferă             hemisferio           
emistih              hemistiquio          
emolient             emoliente            
emolument            emolumentos          
emoție               emoción              
emoțiune             emoción              
empiric              empírico             
emulație             emulación            
emulațiune           emulación            
emulgent             emulgente            
emulsie              emulsión             
emulsiv              emulsión             
encaustic            encáustico           
encaustică           encáustico           
enclitic             enclítico            
energie              energía              
energumen            energúmeno           
enigmă               enigma               
enigmatic            enigmático           
enorm                enorme               
enormitate           enormidad            
entitate             entidad              
enuclea              enuclea              
enucleare            enucleare            
enumera              enumerar             
enumerație           enumeración          
enumerațiune         enumeración          
enunța               enunciar             
epatare              epatare              
epic                 épico                
epică                épico                
epicen               epiceno              
epicureu             epicúreo             
epidermă             epidermis            
epigramă             epigrama             
epigramatic          epigramático         
epilepsie            epilepsia            
epileptic            epiléptico           
epilog               epílogo              
episcop              obispo               
episcopal            episcopal            
episcopat            episcopado           
epistolar            epistolar            
epitaf               epitafio             
epitalam             epitalamio           
epitet               epíteto              
epitomă              epítome              
epodă                epodo                
eradica              erradicar            
erată                errata               
eratic               errático             
erbacee              herbáceo             
erbaceŭ              herbáceo             
erbicid              herbicida            
erbicida             herbicida            
erbivor              herbívoro            
erboriza             herborizar           
erecție              erección             
ereditar             hereditario          
ergotină             ergotina             
ergotism             ergotismo            
erija                erigirse             
erizipel             erisipela            
ermină               armiño               
eroare               error                
eroic                heroico              
eroină               heroína              
erou                 héroe                
eroziune             erosión              
erubescent           erubescente          
eructa               eructa               
erudit               erudito              
erupție              erupción             
escarpă              escarpa              
escortă              escolta              
esenian              esenio               
esență               esencia              
esențial             esencial             
est                  este                 
estimat              estimar              
estru                estro                
estuar               estuario             
etapă                etapa                
eter                 éter                 
etern                eterno               
eternitate           eternidad            
eteroclit            heteróclita          
etichetă             etiqueta             
etimologic           etimológico          
etimologie           etimología           
etnic                étnico               
etrusc               etrusco              
etruscă              etrusco              
eufonie              eufonía              
euharistie           eucaristía           
eunuc                eunuco               
euritmie             euritmia             
evacua               evacuar              
evalua               evaluar              
evangelic            evangélico           
evangelist           evangelista          
evanghelic           evangélico           
evangheliza          evangelizar          
evapora              evaporar             
evaziune             evasión              
eversiune            eversión             
evident              evidente             
evidență             evidencia            
evita                evitar               
evitabil             evitable             
evoca                evocar               
evoluțiune           evolución            
exacerba             exacerbar            
exacerbat            exacerbado           
exagera              exagerar             
exala                exhalar              
exalație             exhalación           
exalta               exaltar              
exaltație            exaltación           
exaltațiune          exaltación           
examen               examen               
examinator           examinador           
exaspera             exasperar            
exasperat            exasperado           
excava               excavar              
excavațiune          excavación           
exceda               excede               
excelent             excelente            
excelență            excelencia           
excepție             excepción            
exces                exceso               
excita               excitar              
excitabil            excitable            
excitație            excitación           
excitațiune          excitación           
excitatoare          excitador            
exclama              exclamar             
exclamație           exclamación          
exclamațiune         exclamación          
exclude              excluir              
exclus               excluidos            
excluziune           exclusión            
excomunica           excomulgar           
excrement            excremento           
excreție             excreción            
execrabil            execrable            
exedră               exedra               
exemplu              ejemplo              
exempt               exento               
exhaustiv            exhaustivo           
exhiba               exhibir              
exigent              exigente             
exil                 exilio               
exod                 éxodo                
exorbitant           exorbitante          
exorcism             exorcismo            
exorcist             exorcista            
exordiu              exordio              
exotic               exótico              
expansiune           expansión            
expansiv             expansivo            
expectație           expectativa          
expediție            expedición           
experiență           experiencia          
experiment           experimento          
expert               experto              
expertă              experto              
expia                expiar               
expiație             expiación            
expiațiune           expiación            
expiator             expiatorio           
explica              explicar             
explicabil           explicable           
explicat             explicado            
explicație           explicación          
explicit             explícito            
explicita            explícito            
explora              explorar             
explorat             explorado            
explorator           explorador           
explozie             explosión            
exploziune           explosión            
exporta              exportar             
expoziție            exposición           
expozițiune          exposición           
expres               expreso              
expresie             expresión            
expulsie             expulsión            
expulza              expulsar             
extensiune           extensión            
extenso              extenso              
exterior             exterior             
extermina            exterminar           
exterminat           exterminado          
exterminator         exterminador         
extern               externo              
externa              externo              
extincție            extinción            
extorsiune           extorsión            
extracție            extracción           
extrage              extraer              
extraordinar         extraordinario       
extras               extraer              
extremă              extremo              
extrinsec            extrínseco           
extruda              extrudir             
exuberant            exuberante           
exuberanță           exuberancia          
exulcera             exulcera             
exulta               exultar              
fabianism            fabianismo           
fabrică              fábrica              
fabricare            fabricar             
fabricat             fabricado            
fabricațiune         fabricación          
fabulă               fábula               
fabulos              fabuloso             
fachir               faquir               
facies               facies               
facil                fácil                
facile               fácil                
facilitate           facilidad            
facțiune             facción              
factor               factor               
factură              factura              
faculă               fácula               
fagot                fagot                
faimă                fama                 
faimos               famoso               
falangă              falange              
falanster            falansterio          
falciform            falciforme           
falcon               halcón               
faliat               falla                
fals                 falso                
falsitate            falsedad             
falus                falo                 
familiar             familiar             
familiaritate        familiaridad         
familie              familia              
fanatic              fanático             
fantasmă             fantasma             
fantasmagorie        fantasmagoría        
fantastic            fantástico           
fantazie             fantasía             
far                  faro                 
farmaceutic          farmacéutico         
farmacie             farmacia             
farsă                farsa                
fasciculă            fascículo            
fascinație           fascinación          
fascinațiune         fascinación          
fascinator           fascinador           
fascism              fascismo             
făt                  feto                 
fatal                fatal                
fatalitate           fatalidad            
fațetă               faceta               
fatidic              fatídico             
faun                 fauno                
fauni                faunos               
favorabil            favorable            
fax                  fax                  
fazan                faisán               
febră                fiebre               
febrifug             febrífugo            
febril               febril               
februarie            febrero              
feculă               fécula               
feculent             feculento            
fecund               fecundo              
fecundat             fecundado            
fecunditate          fecundidad           
federal              federal              
federat              federación           
federație            federación           
federațiune          federativo           
feldspat             feldespato           
felin                felino               
felină               felino               
femur                fémur                
fenestra             fenestra             
fenix                fénix                
fenomen              fenómeno             
fermenta             fermentar            
fermentare           fermentar            
fermentat            fermentada           
fermentație          fermentación         
fermentațiune        fermentación         
fero                 ferro                
feroce               feroz                
ferocitate           ferocidad            
fertilitate          fertilidad           
feruginos            ferruginoso          
fervent              ferviente            
festin               fiesta               
festiv               festivo              
festival             festival             
festivitate          festividad           
feston               festón               
fetid                fétido               
fetiș                fetiche              
fetus                feto                 
feudă                feudo                
fiasco               fiasco               
fibră                fibra                
ficțiune             ficción              
fidelitate           fidelidad            
fiduciar             fiduciario           
fierar               herrero              
figurație            figuración           
figurativ            figurativo           
filament             filamento            
file                 filete               
fileu                filete               
filial               filial               
filială              filial               
filiație             filiación            
filiațiune           filiación            
filiform             filiforme            
filigran             filigrana            
filosoafă            filósofo             
filosof              filósofo             
filozoafă            filósofo             
filozof              filósofo             
filozofa             filosofar            
filozofare           filosofar            
filozofic            filosófico           
fimbrie              fimbrias             
final                final                
finală               final                
finalitate           finalidad            
financiar            financiero           
finanță              financiar            
finanța              financiar            
finanțe              financiar            
finit                finito               
firmament            firmamento           
fiscal               fiscal               
fistulă              fístula              
fistular             fistular             
fistulos             fistuloso            
fizic                físico               
fizică               física               
flacără              llama                
flaccid              flácido              
flagela              flagelar             
flagrant             flagrante            
flamă                llama                
flamin               flamen               
flan                 flan                 
flanelă              franela              
flatus               flato                
flexibil             flexible             
flexibilitate        flexibilidad         
flexiune             flexión              
flexo                flexo                
flexor               flexor               
flexură              flexura              
floare               flor                 
floarea              flor                 
floral               floral               
floricultură         flor                 
florin               florín               
flotă                flota                
flota                flota                
fluctua              fluctuar             
fluctuație           fluctuación          
fluctuațiune         fluctuación          
fluid                fluido               
fluor                flúor                
flux                 flujo                
fluxiune             flujo                
foliculă             folículo             
foliolă              foliolo              
foliu                folio                
fonda                fundar               
fondat               fundado              
foramen              foramen              
foraminifer          foraminíferos        
forceps              fórceps              
forjă                forja                
forjare              forja                
form                 forma                
formă                forma                
formal               formal               
format               formato              
formație             formación            
formațiune           formación            
formidabil           formidable           
formulă              fórmula              
fornicație           fornicación          
forță                fuerza               
fortificant          fortificado          
fortificat           fortificado          
fortificație         fortificación        
fortuit              fortuito             
fosil                fósil                
fosilă               fósil                
fotbal               fútbol               
fotochimic           fotoquímico          
fotogenic            fotogénico           
fractal              fractal              
fracție              fracción             
fracțiune            fracción             
fractură             fractura             
fragă                fresa                
fragil               frágil               
fragilitate          fragilidad           
fragment             fragmento            
fragrant             fragante             
francofon            francófona           
franj                franja               
franjă               franja               
frate                hermano              
fraternitate         fraternidad          
fratricid            fratricidio          
fraudă               fraude               
frază                frase                
frecat               fregar               
frecŭent             frecuente            
frecvență            frecuencia           
frecventativ         frecuentativo        
fregată              fragata              
frescă               fresco               
friabil              friable              
fricțiune            fricción             
frigid               frígido              
frivol               frívolo              
front                frente               
frontispiciu         frontispicio         
fructifica           fructificar          
fructificație        fructificación       
frugal               frugal               
frugalitate          frugalidad           
frustrațiune         frustración          
fugitiv              fugitivo             
fulminant            fulminante           
fuma                 fumar                
fumigație            fumigación           
fumigațiune          fumigación           
funcție              función              
funcțiune            función              
fundat               fundado              
fundație             fundación            
fundațiune           fundación            
funeralii            funeral              
fungi                hongos               
fungicid             fungicida            
fungiform            fungiformes          
fungus               hongo                
furaj                forraje              
furajer              forraje              
furgonetă            furgoneta            
furios               furioso              
furnal               horno                
furnicare            hormiga              
furoare              furor                
furor                furor                
fusiform             fusiforme            
futil                fútil                
futilitate           futilidad            
fuzelaj              fuselaje             
fuziform             fusiforme            
fuziune              fusión               
gaelic               gaélico              
gaelică              gaélico              
galant               galante              
galban               gálbano              
galican              galicana             
galon                galón                
gambit               gambito              
gangă                ganga                
gantlet              guantelete           
garaj                garaje               
garant               garante              
gazolină             gasolina             
gelatină             gelatina             
gemelar              gemelos              
gen                  género               
genealogie           genealogía           
genera               generar              
general              general              
generalitate         generalidad          
generație            generación           
generațiune          generación           
generatoare          generadores          
generator            generador            
generos              generoso             
generozitate         generosidad          
genital              genital              
genitiv              genitivo             
genitor              genitor              
geniu                genio                
genotip              genotipo             
gențiană             genciana             
genuflexiune         genuflexión          
genuin               genuino              
geograf              geógrafo             
geografă             geografía            
geografie            geografía            
geometră             geometría            
geometric            geométrico           
geometrie            geometría            
geometru             geómetra             
geraniu              geranio              
germanic             germánico            
germina              germinar             
germinație           germinación          
germinațiune         germinación          
gest                 gesto                
gestă                gesto                
gestație             gestación            
gestațiune           gestación            
gesticulație         gesticulación        
ghepard              guepardo             
ghețar               glaciar              
ghibelin             gibelinos            
ghilotină            guillotina           
ghilotinare          guillotina           
ghilotina            guillotina           
ghințură             genciana             
ghințuri             genciana             
ghips                yeso                 
gigant               gigante              
giganți              gigantes             
gilbert              gilbert              
gimnastic            gimnástico           
gimnaziu             gimnasio             
gips                 yeso                 
girafă               jirafa               
girandolă            girándula            
glabru               glabro               
glacial              glacial              
glaciație            glaciación           
gladiator            gladiador            
gladiolă             gladiolos            
glandulă             glándula             
glandulos            glanduloso           
glauc                glauca               
glauce               glauca               
glaucom              glaucoma             
glicogen             glucógeno            
glifă                glifo                
glob                 globo                
globul               globo                
globulă              glóbulo              
gloria               gloria               
glorie               gloria               
glorifica            glorificar           
glorios              glorioso             
glosar               glosario             
glosare              glosarios            
glucoză              glucosa              
glucozat             glucosa              
glucozidă            glucósido            
gluten               gluten               
glutinos             glutinoso            
gnom                 gnomo                
gnomon               gnomon               
goeletă              goleta               
golf                 golf                 
gondolă              góndola              
gong                 gong                 
gorgonzola           gorgonzola           
gotic                gótico               
gradație             gradación            
grafic               gráfico              
grafică              gráficos             
gramatic             gramática            
gramatică            gramática            
grâne                grano                
granit               granito              
granulă              gránulo              
grație               gracia               
gratificat           gratificado          
gratificație         gratificación        
gratificațiune       gratificación        
gratis               gratis               
gratitudine          gratitud             
gratuitate           gratuidad            
gratulare            gratulare            
grăunț               grano                
grav                 grave                
grava                grave                
grave                grave                
gravi                grave                
gravid               grávido              
gravimetrie          gravimetría          
gravita              gravitar             
gravitate            gravedad             
gregar               gregario             
gril                 grill                
grimoar              grimorio             
gripă                gripe                
grizu                grisú                
grog                 grog                 
grotesc              grotesco             
gruie                grúa                 
grup                 grupo                
guler                collar               
guverna              gobernar             
habitudine           hábitos              
hagiograf            hagiógrafo           
halebardă            alabarda             
halucinogen          alucinógeno          
hanorac              anorak               
haos                 caos                 
harfă                arpa                 
harpă                arpa                 
harpon               arpón                
hemiciclu            hemiciclo            
herald               heraldo              
hermafrodit          hermafrodita         
hermină              armiño               
herminat             armiño               
hernie               hernia               
heroină              heroína              
herpes               herpes               
heterodină           heterodino           
hexagon              hexágono             
hiacint              jacinto              
hiat                 hiato                
hiberna              hibernar             
hibrid               híbrido              
hibrida              híbrido              
hidră                hidra                
hidraulic            hidráulico           
hidraulică           hidráulica           
hidromel             hidromiel            
hidropizie           hidropesía           
hiemal               hiemal               
hienă                hiena                
hieratic             hierático            
himeră               quimera              
hindus               hindú                
hipodrom             hipódromo            
hipopotam            hipopótamo           
hipostază            hipóstasis           
hispid               híspida              
holocaust            holocausto           
homeric              homérico             
homunculus           homúnculo            
hormon               hormona              
horoscop             horóscopo            
horti                horticultura         
horticultură         horticultura         
hotel                hotel                
hughenot             hugonote             
humerus              húmero               
humus                humus                
hurie                hurí                 
iacint               jacinto              
iacobin              jacobino             
iaht                 yate                 
iamb                 yambo                
iambic               yámbico              
ibidem               ibídem               
ibis                 ibis                 
icono                icono                
iconografie          iconografía          
ideal                ideal                
idee                 idea                 
idem                 ídem                 
identitate           identidad            
idilă                idilio               
idiom                idioma               
idiot                idiota               
idol                 ídolo                
idolatru             idólatra             
idolatrie            idolatría            
ienuper              enebros              
igienă               higiene              
ignorant             ignorante            
ignoranță            ignorancia           
ilaritate            hilaridad            
ilegitim             ilegítimo            
iliac                ilíaco               
ilicit               ilícito              
ilot                 ilota                
ilumina              iluminar             
iluminație           iluminación          
iluminațiune         iluminación          
ilustru              ilustre              
iluzoriu             ilusorio             
imaculat             inmaculado           
imagină              imaginado            
imaginar             imaginario           
imaginare            imaginario           
imaginație           imaginación          
imaginațiune         imaginación          
imagine              imagen               
imanent              inmanente            
imaterial            inmaterial           
imensitate           inmensidad           
imersiune            inmersión            
imigra               inmigrar             
iminent              inminente            
iminență             inminencia           
imita                imitar               
imitabil             imitable             
imitație             imitación            
imitațiune           imitación            
imitativ             imitativo            
imn                  himno                
imobil               inmóvil              
imobilitate          inmovilidad          
imortal              inmortal             
imortalitate         inmortalidad         
impacient            impaciente           
impact               impacto              
impar                impar                
impasibil            impasible            
impasibilitate       impasibilidad        
impecabil            impecable            
impedanță            impedancia           
impediment           impedimento          
impenetrabil         impenetrable         
imperativ            imperativo           
imperfect            imperfecto           
imperfecțiune        imperfección         
imperial             imperial             
imperială            imperial             
imperiu              imperio              
impersonal           impersonal           
impertinent          impertinente         
imperturbabil        imperturbable        
impetigo             impétigo             
impietate            impiedad             
implacabil           implacable           
implicație           implicación          
implicit             implícito            
importa              importar             
importare            importar             
importat             importado            
imposibil            imposible            
imposibilitate       imposibilidad        
impostoare           impostor             
impostor             impostor             
impostură            impostura            
impotent             impotente            
impotență            impotencia           
impozit              impuesto             
imprecație           imprecación          
imprecațiune         imprecación          
impregnat            impregnado           
impresie             impresión            
impresiune           impresión            
imprima              imprimir             
imprimare            imprimir             
imprimat             imprimir             
imprimatur           imprimátur           
impropriu            impropio             
imprudent            imprudente           
imprudență           imprudencia          
impuber              impúber              
impuls               impulso              
impulsiune           impulso              
impune               imponer              
impunitate           impunidad            
impur                impuro               
impuritate           impureza             
impus                impuesto             
imputa               imputar              
imputație            imputación           
imun                 inmune               
imund                inmundo              
imunitate            inmunidad            
imutabil             inmutable            
imutabilitate        inmutabilidad        
inaccesibil          inaccesible          
inalienabil          inalienable          
inamic               enemigo              
inanimat             inanimado            
inaugura             inaugurar            
incarna              encarnar             
incarnație           encarnaciones        
incarnațiune         encarnaciones        
incendiar            incendiario          
incert               incierto             
incest               incesto              
incestuos            incestuoso           
inchiziție           inquisición          
inchizitor           inquisidor           
incident             incidente            
incinera             incinerar            
incipient            incipiente           
incita               incitar              
incitat              incitado             
inciză               incisión             
incizie              incisión             
inciziv              incisión             
înclina              inclinar             
înclinare            inclinar             
înclinație           inclinación          
inclinațiune         inclinación          
inclino              inclino              
include              incluir              
inclus               incluido             
incluziune           inclusión            
incoativ             incoativo            
incolor              incoloro             
incomod              incómodo             
incongruent          incongruente         
incongruență         incongruencia        
inconstanță          inconstancia         
incontinent          incontinente         
incontinență         incontinencia        
incoruptibil         incorruptible        
incoruptibilitate    incorruptibilidad    
incredibil           increíble            
incredul             incrédulo            
incrimina            incriminar           
incriminat           incriminado          
incrustat            incrustado           
incubație            incubación           
incunabul            incunable            
incurabil            incurable            
incursiune           incursión            
incusă               yunque               
indecent             indecente            
indecență            indecencia           
indeclinabil         indeclinable         
indeterminabil       indeterminable       
indeterminat         indeterminado        
index                índice               
indica               indicar              
indicație            indicación           
indicațiune          indicación           
indicativ            indicativo           
indice               índice               
indiferent           indiferente          
indiferență          indiferencia         
indigen              indígena             
indigent             indigente            
indigest             indigesto            
indigestie           indigestión          
indignat             indignado            
indirect             indirecto            
indisciplină         indisciplina         
indistinct           indistinto           
indivizibil          indivisible          
indocil              indócil              
indolent             indolente            
indolență            indolencia           
induce               inducir              
inductanță           inductancia          
inducție             inducción            
inductiv             inductivo            
indulgent            indulgente           
indulgență           indulgencia          
indult               indulto              
indument             indumento            
industrie            industria            
inefabil             inefable             
ineluctabil          ineluctable          
inept                inepto               
inerent              inherente            
inert                inerte               
inerție              inercia              
inerva               inervado             
inestimabil          inestimable          
inexperiență         inexperiencia        
inexplicabil         inexplicable         
inexpugnabil         inexpugnable         
inextricabil         inextricable         
infam                infame               
infama               infame               
infamare             infamare             
infamie              infamia              
infanticid           infanticidio         
infantil             infantil             
infern               infierno             
infernal             infernal             
infesta              infestar             
infidel              infiel               
infidelitate         infidelidad          
infinit              infinito             
infinitate           infinito             
infinitezimal        infinitesimal        
infinitiv            infinitivo           
inflama              inflamar             
inflamație           inflamación          
inflamațiune         inflamación          
inflație             inflación            
inflexibil           inflexible           
inflexiune           inflexión            
inflige              inflige              
inflorescență        inflorescencia       
inform               informe              
informa              informar             
informație           información          
informațiune         información          
infra                infra                
infundibuliform      infundibuliforme     
infuza               infundir             
infuzie              infusión             
infuziune            infusión             
ingenios             ingenioso            
ingenuu              ingenuo              
ingera               ingerir              
ingestie             ingestión            
inghinal             inguinal             
ingratitudine        ingratitud           
ingredient           ingrediente          
inhala               inhalar              
inhalație            inhalación           
inhalațiune          inhalación           
inhiba               inhibir              
inhibiție            inhibición           
iniția               iniciar              
inițial              inicial              
inițială             inicial              
inițiațiune          iniciativa           
inițiativă           iniciativa           
inițiator            iniciador            
injecție             inyección            
injust               injusto              
injustiție           injusticia           
inocent              inocente             
inocență             inocencia            
inocula              inocular             
inoculat             inoculado            
inoculație           inoculación          
inoculațiune         inoculación          
inodor               inodoro              
inoportun            inoportuno           
inoportuna           inoportuno           
inova                innovar              
inovație             innovación           
insalubru            insalubre            
insațiabil           insaciable           
inscripție           inscripción          
insculpa             insculpa             
insectă              insecto              
insectivor           insectívoro          
insensibil           insensible           
insensibilitate      insensibilidad       
inseparabilitate     inseparabilidad      
inserție             inserción            
insidios             insidioso            
insipid              insípido             
insista              insistir             
insistare            insistir             
insolent             insolente            
insolență            insolencia           
insolit              insólito             
insolubil            insoluble            
insomnie             insomnio             
inspecție            inspección           
inspectoare          inspector            
inspector            inspector            
inspira              inspirar             
inspirație           inspiración          
inspirațiune         inspiración          
instala              instalar             
instalat             instalado            
instiga              instigar             
instigat             instigado            
instigator           instigador           
instilație           instilación          
instinct             instinto             
institut             instituto            
instituție           institución          
instituțiune         institución          
instructoare         instructora          
instructor           instructor           
instrument           instrumento          
insuficient          insuficiente         
insuficiență         insuficiencia        
insuflație           insuflación          
insulă               isla                 
insular              insular              
insultă              insultar             
insultat             insultado            
insurecție           insurrección         
intact               intacto              
integral             integral             
integrală            integral             
integritate          integridad           
integument           integumento          
intelect             intelecto            
intelecție           intelecto            
intelectual          intelectual          
inteligent           inteligente          
intens               intenso              
intercalat           intercalar           
intercede            interceder           
intercesiune         intercesión          
intercesor           intercesores         
interdicțiune        interdicción         
interes              interés              
interfață            interfaz             
interferon           interferón           
interior             interior             
interjecție          interjección         
intermediar          intermedio           
interminabil         interminable         
intermitent          intermitente         
intern               interno              
interna              interno              
interoga             interrogar           
interogativ          interrogativo        
interpela            interpelar           
interpola            interpolar           
interpolat           interpolados         
interpolație         interpolación        
interpolatoare       interpolación        
interpolator         interpolador         
interpoziție         interposición        
interpreta           interpretar          
interpune            interponer           
interregn            interregno           
intersecție          intersección         
interstițiu          intersticio          
interval             intervalo            
interveni            intervenir           
intervenire          intervenir           
intervenție          intervención         
intestin             intestino            
intim                íntimo               
intimă               íntimo               
intitulat            intitulado           
intolerabil          intolerable          
intoleranță          intolerancia         
intrând              entrar               
intranzitiv          intransitivo         
intrat               entró                
intrepid             intrépido            
intrinsec            intrínseco           
introduce            introducir           
introductor          introductor          
introdus             introducido          
introitus            introito             
intuiție             intuición            
inuman               inhumano             
inumanitate          inhumanidad          
inundație            inundación           
inutil               inútil               
invada               invadir              
invadat              invadido             
invalid              inválido             
invar                invar                
invazie              invasión             
invectivă            invectiva            
inventar             inventario           
invenție             invención            
inversiune           inversión            
inverti              invertir             
invertire            invertir             
invertit             invertir             
investiga            investigar           
investigație         investigación        
investigator         investigador         
invincibil           invencible           
inviolabil           inviolable           
invitație            invitación           
invitațiune          invitación           
invizibil            invisible            
invizibilitate       invisibilidad        
invoca               invocar              
invocație            invocación           
involucru            involucro            
involuntar           involuntario         
involuție            involución           
invulnerabil         invulnerable         
iperită              iperita              
ipocrit              hipócrita            
ipotecă              hipoteca             
ipotenuză            hipotenusa           
iradia               irradiar             
iradiație            irradiación          
iradiațiune          irradiación          
irațional            irracional           
ireconciliabil       irreconciliable      
irecuzabil           irrecusable          
ireligios            irreligioso          
ireparabil           irreparable          
irespirabil          irrespirable         
ireverență           irreverencia         
iris                 iris                 
iritabil             irritable            
iritabilitate        irritabilidad        
iritație             irritación           
iritațiune           irritación           
ironic               irónico              
ironie               ironía               
irupe                irrumpe              
irupție              irrupción            
irupțiune            irrupción            
islam                islam                
isoscel              isósceles            
isterie              histeria             
istm                 istmo                
istoria              historia             
istoric              histórico            
istorie              historia             
italic               itálico              
iterativ             iterativo            
iudaism              judaísmo             
iudeo                judío                
iulian               juliano              
izomer               isómero              
jad                  jade                 
jambon               jamón                
jantă                llanta               
jasp                 jaspe                
javelină             jabalina             
jejun                yeyuno               
jejuno               yeyuno               
jeleu                jalea                
jet                  jet                  
jugula               yugular              
jugulare             yugular              
jura                 jurar                
jurare               juró                 
juridic              jurídico             
jurisdicție          jurisdicción         
justifica            justificar           
justiția             justicia             
justiție             justicia             
juvenil              juvenil              
ketch                queche               
kibbutz              kibutz               
labarum              lábaro               
labiat               labios               
labil                lábil                
labirint             laberinto            
laborios             laborioso            
lac                  lago                 
lacerație            laceración           
laconic              lacónico             
lăcrămos             lacrimoso            
lacrimosa            lacrimosa            
lactat               lácteo               
lactate              lácteo               
lactescent           lactescente          
lactic               láctico              
lagună               laguna               
lama                 lama                 
lamentație           lamentación          
lamentațiune         lamentación          
lamento              lamento              
lamină               lámina               
lână                 lana                 
lance                lanza                
lanceolat            lanceoladas          
lană                 lana                 
lapidar              lapidario            
lapidariu            lapidario            
lăptar               lechero              
lăptoasă             lechoso              
lăptos               lechoso              
lar                  lar                  
larvă                larva                
larvi                larva                
lăsa                 dejar                
lasciv               lascivo              
laser                láser                
latent               latente              
lateral              lateral              
lateralitate         lateralidad          
latex                látex                
latin                latín                
latină               latín                
latini               latín                
latinitate           latinidad            
latinizat            latinizado           
latitudine           latitud              
latrină              letrina              
latură               lado                 
lavă                 lava                 
lavand               lavanda              
lavandă              lavanda              
lax                  laxo                 
lazană               lasaña               
lazane               lasaña               
leader               líder                
lecitină             lecitina             
lecție               lección              
lectură              lectura              
legal                legal                
legatar              legatario            
legatară             legatario            
legație              legación             
legendă              leyenda              
legionar             legionario           
legislație           legislación          
legislațiune         legislación          
legislator           legislador           
legitim              legítimo             
legitima             legítimo             
legiune              legión               
leguminoasă          legumbre             
leguminos            leguminoso           
lemur                lémur                
lemurii              lémures              
lenitiv              lenitivo             
lent                 lento                
lentă                lento                
lenticular           lenticular           
lentigo              lentigo              
leopard              leopardo             
letal                letal                
letargic             letárgico            
letargie             letargo              
leziune              lesión               
liană                liana                
libație              libación             
libațiune            libación             
liber                libre                
libera               libre                
liberal              liberal              
libert               libertad             
libertate            libertad             
libertin             libertino            
libido               libido               
librar               librero              
libret               libreto              
licență              licencia             
licențios            licencioso           
lichen               liquen               
lichid               líquido              
lichior              licor                
licit                lícito               
lictar               electuario           
lictor               lictor               
lider                líder                
ligament             ligamento            
ligatură             ligadura             
ligni                lignito              
lignit               lignito              
lila                 lila                 
liliaceŭ             liliácea             
liliuță              lirio                
limen                limen                
limfă                linfa                
limită               limitar              
limitrof             limítrofe            
limuzină             limusina             
lingotieră           lingotera            
lingou               lingote              
lingvi               lingüistas           
lingvist             lingüista            
lingvistă            lingüista            
lingvistic           lingüístico          
lingvistică          lingüística          
liră                 libra                
listel               listel               
litanie              letanía              
literal              literal              
literar              literario            
literare             literario            
literatură           literatura           
litigant             litigante            
litigantă            litigante            
litigios             litigioso            
litigiu              litigio              
litotritie           litotricia           
litru                litro                
livid                lívido               
livră                libra                
livrea               librea               
local                local                
locomoție            locomoción           
locomotor            locomotora           
locvace              locuaz               
longevitate          longevidad           
longitudine          longitud             
loterie              lotería              
loțiune              loción               
lotus                loto                 
lubricitate          lubricidad           
lucid                lúcido               
lucrativ             lucrativo            
lugher               lugre                
lugubru              lúgubre              
lumbago              lumbago              
lumen                lumen                
lunatic              lunático             
lupă                 lupa                 
lupus                lupus                
lustral              lustral              
lustrație            lustración           
lustrațiune          lustración           
lux                  lujo                 
macera               macerar              
macerație            maceración           
macerațiune          maceración           
macrameu             macramé              
madrepor             madréporas           
mafia                mafia                
mafie                mafia                
magie                magia                
magisteriu           magisterio           
magistral            magistral            
magistrat            magistrado           
magnat               magnate              
magnetic             magnético            
magnific             magnífico            
magnificență         magnificencia        
magnitudine          magnitud             
mahomedan            mahometano           
maiestate            majestad             
maioneză             mayonesa             
majolică             mayólica             
major                mayor                
majordom             mayordomo            
malahit              malaquita            
malar                malar                
malarie              malaria              
maleabil             maleable             
malefic              maléfico             
maleolă              maléolo              
malign               maligno              
malignitate          malignidad           
maliție              malicia              
malț                 malta                
mameluc              mameluco             
mamifer              mamífero             
mamut                mamut                
mandat               mandato              
mandibulă            mandíbula            
mandrină             mandril              
mango                mango                
manie                manía                
manierism            manierismo           
maniheu              maniqueo             
manivelă             manivela             
mantisă              mantisa              
manual               manual               
manuală              manual               
manumis              manumisión           
manumisiune          manumisión           
manuscris            manuscrito           
marabu               marabú               
marabut              marabú               
maraschino           marrasquino          
marcă                marcar               
marcescent           marcescentes         
margarină            margarina            
mărinimie            magnanimidad         
mărinimos            magnánimo            
marino               marino               
marionetă            marioneta            
marital              marital              
maritim              marítimo             
maro                 marrón               
maron                marrón               
marțial              marcial              
martingală           martingala           
martiriu             martirio             
masacra              masacre              
masacrat             masacrado            
masacru              masacre              
masaj                masaje               
mascotă              mascota              
mascul               macho                
mașinație            maquinación          
masticațiune         masticación          
mată                 mate                 
mate                 mate                 
matematic            matemático           
material             material             
matinal              matutino             
matri                matriz               
matrice              matriz               
mătrice              matriz               
matrimonial          matrimonial          
matroană             matrona              
matronă              matrona              
mausoleu             mausoleo             
maxi                 maxi                 
maxilar              maxilar              
maxim                máximo               
maximă               máximo               
maximum              máximo               
meato                meato                
mecanic              mecánico             
mecanism             mecanismo            
meconiu              meconio              
mediastin            mediastino           
mediație             mediación            
mediatoare           mediación            
mediator             mediador             
medicație            medicación           
medicațiune          medicación           
medicină             medicina             
medicinal            medicinal            
mediocritate         mediocridad          
mediocru             mediocre             
medita               meditar              
meditație            meditación           
meditațiune          meditación           
medulo               médula               
megatonă             megatón              
melamină             melamina             
melancolie           melancolía           
membră               miembro              
membrană             membrana             
membru               miembro              
memorabil            memorable            
memorandum           memorando            
memorie              memoria              
memorial             memorial             
memoriu              memoria              
menhir               menhir               
meniu                menú                 
menstre              menstruo             
menstrual            menstrual            
mentă                menta                
mental               mental               
menuet               minué                
mercenar             mercenario           
mercurial            mercurial            
meridian             meridiano            
meridiană            meridiano            
meridional           meridional           
meritoriu            meritorio            
metabolit            metabolito           
metaforă             metáfora             
metal                metal                
metalic              metálico             
metalifer            metalífero           
metaplasmă           metaplasmo           
meticulos            meticuloso           
metil                metilo               
metod                método               
metodă               método               
metonimie            metonimia            
metric               métrico              
metropolitan         metropolitano        
micțiune             micción              
migrat               migrado              
migrațiune           migración            
migrenă              migraña              
milenar              milenario            
milioane             millón               
milion               millón               
milita               militar              
militant             militante            
militar              militar              
miliție              milicia              
mim                  mimo                 
minaret              minarete             
mina                 mina                 
minciună             mentir               
minei                mina                 
mini                 mini                 
miniatură            miniatura            
minim                mínimo               
minimum              mínimo               
minister             ministerio           
ministru             ministro             
miniu                minio                
minor                menor                
mintal               mental               
minus                menos                
minuscul             minúsculo            
minusculă            minúscula            
minut                minuto               
minută               minuto               
mirt                 mirto                
miscelaneu           miscelánea           
miscibil             miscible             
miserere             miserere             
misiune              misión               
mister               misterio             
mistic               místico              
mistică              místico              
mistifica            mistificar           
mistral              mistral              
mitic                mítico               
mitică               mítico               
mitologie            mitología            
mixt                 mixto                
mixta                mixto                
mixte                mixto                
mixtiune             mixto                
mizerabil            miserable            
mizerie              miseria              
moar                 muaré                
mobil                móvil                
mobile               móvil                
mobili               móvil                
mobilitate           movilidad            
moca                 moca                 
mochetă              moqueta              
modă                 moda                 
mode                 modo                 
model                modelo               
moderație            moderación           
moderațiune          moderación           
moderato             moderato             
moderator            moderador            
modern               moderno              
modest               modesto              
modestie             modestia             
modificat            modificado           
modul                módulo               
modulat              modulado             
modulație            modulación           
modulațiune          modulación           
mojar                mortero              
molar                molar                
molare               molar                
moleculă             molécula             
molesta              molestar             
molibden             molibdeno            
molluscum            molusco              
molusc               molusco              
moment               momento              
momentan             momentáneo           
monahal              monacal              
monarh               monarca              
monarhi              monarcas             
monarhie             monarquía            
monedă               moneda               
monetar              monetario            
monoclu              monóculo             
monogam              monógamo             
monogamie            monogamia            
monolingv            monolingüe           
monolit              monolito             
monosilabă           monosílabo           
monsenior            monseñor             
monstru              monstruo             
monstruos            monstruoso           
montan               montaña              
monument             monumento            
monumental           monumental           
moratoriu            moratoria            
morbid               mórbido              
morbific             morbífico            
morgă                morgue               
morsă                morsa                
mortal               mortal               
mortar               mortero              
mortier              mortero              
mortificațiune       mortificación        
morulă               mórula               
motel                motel                
motet                motete               
motocicletă          motocicleta          
motor                motor                
mucilagiu            mucílago             
muftiu               muftí                
multi                muchos               
multicolor           multicolor           
multiform            multiforme           
multiplica           multiplicar          
multiplicabil        multiplicable        
multiplicator        multiplicador        
multiplicitate       multiplicidad        
multiplu             múltiple             
multitudine          multitud             
mundan               mundano              
municipal            municipal            
municipiu            municipio            
muniție              munición             
munițiune            munición             
mural                mural                
muribund             moribundo            
murmura              murmurar             
muschetă             mosquete             
muselină             muselina             
musterian            musteriense          
musulman             musulmán             
mutabil              mudable              
mutabilitate         mutabilidad          
mutație              mutación             
mutila               mutilar              
mutism               mutismo              
mutual               mutuo                
muzeu                museo                
muzică               música               
nacrit               nacrita              
naftă                nafta                
naftalină            naftalina            
naiadă               náyade               
nara                 narrar               
narativ              narrativa            
narator              narrador             
narcis               narciso              
narcotină            narcotina            
nard                 nardo                
natație              natación             
nație                nación               
națiune              nación               
nativ                nativo               
natural              natural              
naturalitate         naturalidad          
naufragiat           naufragado           
naufragiu            naufragio            
nausea               náusea               
nautic               náutico              
nautică              náutico              
naval                naval                
navicular            navicular            
naviga               navegar              
navigabil            navegable            
navigație            navegación           
navigațiune          navegación           
nazal                nasal                
nazală               nasal                
neagă                niega                
nebulos              nebuloso             
nebulozitate         nebulosidad          
necesar              necesario            
necesitate           necesidad            
nectar               néctar               
nectari              néctar               
nectarină            nectarina            
nefritic             nefrítico            
negație              negación             
negativ              negativo             
negativa             negativo             
negligență           negligencia          
neglijent            negligente           
neglijență           negligencia          
negocia              negociar             
negociatoare         negociación          
negociator           negociador           
nematod              nematodo             
neoplazie            neoplasia            
neotenie             neotenia             
net                  neto                 
nete                 neto                 
neto                 neto                 
neuron               neurona              
neutral              neutral              
neutro               neutro               
nex                  nexo                 
nichel               níquel               
nicotină             nicotina             
nidus                nido                 
nihilism             nihilismo            
nimbus               nimbo                
nimfă                ninfa                
nimfe                ninfas               
nișă                 nicho                
nisetru              esturión             
nitro                nitro                
nitros               nitroso              
nobil                noble                
nobila               noble                
nobile               noble                
nobili               noble                
nobiliar             noble                
noctiluca            noctiluca            
nocturn              nocturno             
nocturnă             nocturno             
noduli               nódulos              
nomad                nómada               
nomenclatură         nomenclatura         
nominal              nominal              
nominativ            nominativo           
non                  no                   
nonagenar            nonagenario          
nono                 nono                 
normal               normal               
normand              normando             
notabil              notable              
notar                notario              
notație              notación             
notațiune            notación             
notifica             notificar            
noțiune              noción               
noto                 noto                 
notoriu              notorio              
noutate              novedad              
novă                 nova                 
nova                 nova                 
nubil                núbil                
nucleol              nucléolo             
nucleŭ               núcleo               
nud                  desnudo              
nuda                 desnudo              
nul                  nulo                 
nuli                 nulo                 
numeral              numeral              
numismatic           numismático          
numismatică          numismática          
nupțial              nupcial              
nutație              nutación             
oază                 oasis                
obediență            obediencia           
obelisc              obelisco             
obez                 obeso                
obezi                obeso                
obezitate            obesidad             
obiect               objeto               
obiecție             objeción             
oblat                oblato               
oblație              oblato               
oblic                oblicuo              
oblica               oblicuo              
oblici               oblicuo              
oblicitate           oblicuidad           
obligație            obligación           
obligațiune          obligación           
obligatoriu          obligatorio          
obliterație          obliteración         
oblong               oblongo              
obnubilație          obnubilación         
oboi                 oboe                 
obscen               obsceno              
obscenitate          obscenidad           
obscuritate          oscuridad            
observabil           observable           
observație           observación          
observațiune         observación          
observator           observador           
obsesie              obsesión             
obsesiune            obsesión             
obsidian             obsidiana            
obsidional           obsidional           
obstacol             obstáculo            
obstruat             obstruido            
obstrucție           obstrucción          
obtura               obturar              
obturație            obturación           
obtuz                obtuso               
ocarină              ocarina              
occidental           occidental           
occipital            occipital            
occiput              occipucio            
ocean                océano               
ocru                 ocre                 
octaedru             octaedro             
octant               octante              
octogenar            octogenario          
octombrie            octubre              
ocular               ocular               
ocula                oculares             
ocult                oculto               
oculta               oculto               
ocultație            ocultación           
ocupa                ocupar               
ocupat               ocupado              
ocupație             ocupación            
ocupațional          ocupacional          
odă                  oda                  
odaliscă             odalisca             
odios                odioso               
odorant              odorante             
odorifer             odorífero            
ofertoriu            ofertorio            
oficial              oficial              
oficios              oficioso             
oficiu               oficina              
ogivă                ojiva                
oleină               oleína               
olfacție             olfato               
olimpic              olímpico             
oliv                 oliva                
olivă                oliva                
omasum               omaso                
ombilic              ombligo              
omento               omento               
omilie               homilía              
omis                 omitido              
omisiune             omisión              
omite                omitir               
omnipotent           omnipotente          
omnipotență          omnipotencia         
omnivor              omnívoro             
oneros               oneroso              
onest                honesto              
onești               honesto              
onomatopeie          onomatopeya          
onora                honrar               
onorabil             honorable            
onorar               honorario            
onorare              honrar               
onorat               honrado              
opac                 opaco                
opacă                opaco                
opacitate            opacidad             
opal                 ópalo                
operă                ópera                
operat               operado              
operație             operación            
operațiune           operación            
operatoare           operador             
operator             operador             
opercul              opérculo             
operetă              opereta              
opinare              opinaré              
opinie               opinión              
opiu                 opio                 
oportun              oportuno             
opoziție             oposición            
opresiune            opresión             
opresiv              opresivo             
oprima               oprimir              
optare               optar                
optativ              optativo             
optim                óptimo               
opțiune              opción               
opuscul              opúsculo             
oră                  hora                 
oracol               oráculo              
oral                 oral                 
orație               oración              
oratoriu             oratoria             
orbicular            orbicular            
orbita               órbita               
orbită               órbita               
orchideie            orquídea             
ordalie              ordalías             
ordin                orden                
ordinal              ordinal              
ordinar              ordinario            
ordinare             ordinario            
ordine               orden                
ore                  horas                
organ                órgano               
organdi              organdí              
organic              orgánico             
orgie                orgía                
oribil               horrible             
oriental             oriental             
original             original             
origine              origen               
orizont              horizonte            
ornament             ornamento            
oroare               horror               
ortodox              ortodoxo             
ortodoxie            ortodoxia            
ortografie           ortografía           
osana                hosanna              
osanale              hosannas             
oscilă               oscilado             
oscilație            oscilación           
oscilațiune          oscilación           
ospitalitate         hospitalidad         
ostentație           ostentación          
ostil                hostil               
ostilitate           hostilidad           
otoman               otomano              
otomană              otomano              
otomani              otomanos             
oval                 oval                 
ovar                 ovario               
ovație               ovación              
ovațiune             ovación              
oviduct              oviducto             
ovipar               ovíparo              
ovoid                ovoide               
pacemaker            marcapasos           
pachet               paquete              
pacient              paciente             
paciență             paciencia            
pacifica             pacificar            
pacificator          pacificador          
paciuli              pachulí              
pact                 pacto                
păgân                pagano               
păgâni               pagano               
păgîn                pagano               
pagină               página               
pâine                pan                  
pâinea               pan                  
palat                palacio              
palatin              palatino             
palatină             palatino             
palid                pálido               
palimpsest           palimpsesto          
palinodie            palinodia            
palium               palio                
palm                 palma                
palmă                palma                
palmier              palma                
palmieri             palma                
palmiped             palmípedo            
palp                 palpo                
palpa                palpar               
paludă               palúdico             
panacee              panaceas             
panaceie             panacea              
panaceu              panacea              
pandecte             pandectas            
panică               pánico               
panicul              panícula             
paniculă             panícula             
pantalon             pantalones           
pantaloni            pantalones           
panteon              panteón              
panteră              pantera              
papă                 papa                 
papilă               papila               
papilionacee         papilionáceas        
papulă               pápula               
parabolă             parábola             
parabolic            parabólico           
paracenteză          paracentesis         
paradigmă            paradigma            
paradis              paraíso              
paradiziac           paradisíaco          
paragraf             párrafo              
paralel              paralelo             
paralelă             paralelo             
paralelepiped        paralelepípedo       
paralelogram         paralelogramo        
paralitic            paralítico           
paraliza             paralizar            
paralizat            paralizado           
paranteză            paréntesis           
parapet              parapeto             
parazit              parásito             
parc                 parque               
parcelă              parcela              
paricid              parricidio           
parietal             parietal             
parietală            parietal             
paritate             paridad              
parodie              parodia              
parohie              parroquia            
paronomasie          paronomasia          
paronomază           paronomasia          
parotidă             parótida             
parte                parte                
participa            participar           
participiu           participio           
particulă            partícula            
particularitate      particularidad       
partă                parto                
pașaport             pasaporte            
pascal               pascual              
pasiune              pasión               
pasiv                pasivo               
passim               pássim               
pastel               pastel               
pasteuriza           pasteurizar          
pasteurizat          pasteurizado         
pastișă              pastiche             
pasto                pasto                
pastor               pastor               
păstori              pastor               
păstorul             pastor               
pășune               pasto                
patenă               patena               
patent               patente              
patentă              patente              
paternitate          paternidad           
patetic              patético             
patrician            patricio             
patriciană           patricio             
patrimonial          patrimonial          
patrimoniu           patrimonio           
patron               patrón               
patronimic           patronímico          
patrulater           cuadrilátero         
pauper               pobre                
paviment             pavimento            
pavor                pavor                
peaj                 peaje                
pectoral             pectoral             
peculiar             peculiar             
pecuniar             pecuniario           
pedală               pedal                
pedant               pedante              
pediculoză           pediculosis          
pedicur              pedicura             
peduncul             pedúnculo            
pelerin              peregrino            
pelican              pelícano             
peliculă             película             
pelvis               pelvis               
pendent              pendiente            
pendinte             pendiente            
pendul               péndulo              
penetra              penetrar             
penetrabil           penetrable           
penetrație           penetración          
penetrațiune         penetración          
penicilină           penicilina           
peninsulă            península            
penis                pene                 
penitent             penitente            
penitență            penitencia           
pensiune             pensión              
penultim             penúltimo            
penumbră             penumbra             
penurie              penuria              
peplu                peplos               
per                  por                  
percepe              percibir             
perceptibil          perceptible          
percepție            percepción           
percuta              percutir             
percuție             percusión            
perdiție             perdición            
perdițiune           perdición            
peregrin             peregrino            
peren                perenne              
perena               perenne              
perenitate           perennidad           
perfect              perfecto             
perfecta             perfecto             
perfecțiune          perfección           
perfid               pérfido              
perfidie             perfidia             
perfora              perforar             
pergament            pergamino            
pergolă              pérgola              
pericol              peligro              
pericul              peligro              
periculos            peligroso            
periferie            periferia            
perioadă             período              
periodic             periódico            
peripatetic          peripatético         
periplu              periplo              
peritoneu            peritoneo            
permanent            permanente           
permeabil            permeable            
permis               permitido            
permisiune           permiso              
permite              permitir             
permitere            permitiendo          
permuta              permutar             
permutație           permutación          
permutațiune         permutación          
pernicios            pernicioso           
peroneu              peroné               
perora               perorar              
perpendicular        perpendicular        
perpendiculară       perpendicular        
perpetuu             perpetuo             
perpetua             perpetuar            
perpetuitate         perpetuidad          
perplex              perplejo             
perplexitate         perplejidad          
persecuție           persecución          
persecuțiune         persecución          
persecutoare         persecución          
persevera            perseverar           
perseverență         perseverancia        
persista             persistir            
persoană             persona              
personal             personal             
perspectiv           perspectiva          
perspectivă          perspectiva          
perspicace           perspicaz            
persuada             persuadir            
persuasiune          persuasión           
pertinent            pertinente           
perturba             perturbar            
perturbație          perturbación         
perturbațiune        perturbación         
perversitate         perversidad          
perversiune          perversión           
pervertire           pervirtiendo         
pesar                pesario              
peteșie              petequias            
petiție              petición             
petițiune            petición             
petrifica            petrifica            
petrificat           petrificado          
petulant             petulante            
petun                petunia              
petunie              petunia              
pianoforte           pianoforte           
piastru              piastra              
picta                pintar               
pictografie          pictografía          
pictor               pintor               
pidgin               pidgin               
pietate              piedad               
pigment              pigmento             
pijama               pijama               
pilor                píloro               
pilos                piloso               
pilot                piloto               
pineal               pineal               
pineală              pineal               
pinguin              pingüino             
pinion               piñón                
piniped              pinnípedos           
pion                 peón                 
pionier              pionero              
pionieră             pionero              
piramidă             pirámide             
pirat                pirata               
pireu                puré                 
piroxilină           piroxilina           
piruetă              pirueta              
pirueta              pirueta              
piscicultură         piscicultura         
piscină              piscina              
pisiform             pisiforme            
pistil               pistilo              
piston               pistón               
pitonisă             pitonisa             
piure                puré                 
pivot                pivote               
pixel                pixel                
placebo              placebo              
placentă             placenta             
plagiat              plagio               
plajă                playa                
plămîn               pulmón               
planetă              planeta              
planetar             planetario           
planetară            planetario           
plantă               planta               
plantație            plantación           
plantațiune          plantación           
plantigrad           plantígrado          
plastic              plástico             
plastică             plástico             
plastron             plastrón             
plauzibil            plausible            
plebe                plebe                
plebeu               plebeyo              
plebi                plebe                
plebiscit            plebiscito           
plen                 plenario             
plenar               plenario             
plenară              plenario             
plenitudine          plenitud             
pleonasm             pleonasmo            
pleurezie            pleuresía            
plex                 plexo                
ploios               lluvioso             
plombagină           plombagina           
plumbago             plombagina           
plumulă              plúmula              
plural               plural               
pluralitate          pluralidad           
pluvial              pluvial              
pluviometru          pluviómetro          
pneumatic            neumático            
podium               podio                
poet                 poeta                
poetic               poético              
poezie               poesía               
pol                  polo                 
polen                polen                
poleni               polen                
poli                 polo                 
policar              pulgar               
politic              político             
poliție              policía              
polivalent           polivalente          
polo                 polo                 
poluție              polución             
poluțiune            polución             
pompos               pomposo              
ponderabil           ponderable           
ponderație           ponderación          
ponderațiune         ponderación          
ponei                poni                 
pont                 punta                
pontic               póntico              
pontif               pontífice            
pontifical           pontifical           
pontifice            pontífice            
ponton               pontón               
popliteu             poplíteo             
popular              popular              
populare             popular              
popularitate         popularidad          
populațiune          población            
por                  poro                 
porcin               porcino              
portar               portero              
porțelan             porcelana            
portice              pórticos             
porție               porción              
porțiune             porción              
port                 puerto               
posesie              posesión             
posesiune            posesión             
posesiv              posesivo             
posibil              posible              
posibilitate         posibilidad          
posterior            posterior            
posteritate          posteridad           
postula              postular             
postumă              póstumo              
potabil              potable              
potaș                potasa               
potasă               potasa               
potent               potente              
potență              potencia             
poternă              poterna              
poțiune              poción               
potpourri            popurrí              
poziție              posición             
pozitiv              positivo             
pragmatic            pragmático           
pragmatică           pragmático           
pragmatism           pragmatismo          
praz                 puerro               
pre                  pre                  
prebendă             prebenda             
precar               precario             
precauție            precaución           
preceda              preceder             
precept              precepto             
precepție            preceptor            
preceptor            preceptor            
precesie             precesión            
precesiune           precesión            
precipita            precipitar           
precipitant          precipitante         
precipitat           precipitar           
precis               preciso              
precizie             precisión            
precoce              precoz               
precursoare          precursor            
precursor            precursor            
predecesoare         predecesor           
predecesor           predecesor           
predestina           predestinar          
predestinație        predestinación       
predicare            predicación          
predicație           predicación          
predicațiune         predicación          
predicativ           predicativo          
predicatoare         predicadores         
predicator           predicador           
predicție            predicción           
preeminență          preeminencia         
prefață              prefacio             
prefect              prefecto             
prefectură           prefectura           
prefera              preferir             
preferat             preferida            
preferi              preferir             
prefix               prefijo              
pregăti              preparar             
prelat               prelado              
preliminar           preliminar           
preliminare          preliminar           
preliminarii         preliminar           
preludiu             preludio             
prematur             prematuro            
premedita            premeditar           
premeditat           premeditado          
premisă              premisa              
premiu               premio               
preocupat            preocupado           
prepara              preparar             
preparație           preparación          
preparator           preparador           
preparatoriŭ         preparatorio         
prepotent            prepotente           
prepoziție           preposición          
prepuț               prepucio             
prerogativă          prerrogativa         
prescripție          prescripción         
președinte           presidente           
presiune             presión              
prestidigitator      prestidigitador      
prestigiu            prestigio            
presto               presto               
pretențios           pretencioso          
preterit             pretérito            
preterițiune         preterición          
pretext              pretexto             
prețios              precioso             
pretor               pretor               
pretorian            pretoriano           
pretoriu             pretorio             
pretură              preturas             
prevarica            prevarica            
prevaricator         prevaricador         
prevenție            prevención           
previziune           previsión            
prezbiteriu          presbiterio          
prezență             presencia            
prezerva             preservar            
prezidiu             presidio             
prezenta             presentar            
prezumpt             presunto             
prezumție            presunción           
prezumțios           presuntuoso          
primat               primate              
primitiv             primitivo            
primulă              primavera            
primulacee           primuláceas          
principal            principal            
principat            principado           
principe             príncipe             
principesă           princesa             
principiu            principio            
prinț                príncipe             
prințesă             princesa             
prioră               prioridad            
prioritate           prioridad            
priva                privar               
privațiune           privación            
privativ             privativo            
privez               privar               
privilegiŭ           privilegio           
probabilism          probabilismo         
probabilitate        probabilidad         
probitate            probidad             
problemă             problema             
proces               proceso              
procesiune           procesión            
proclama             proclamar            
proclamație          proclamación         
proconsul            procónsul            
proconsular          proconsular          
proconsulat          proconsulado         
procrea              procrear             
procreație           procreación          
procreațiune         procreación          
procreator           procreador           
procurator           procurador           
prodiga              pródigo              
produc               producir             
produce              producir             
product              producto             
profan               profano              
profana              profano              
profanat             profanado            
profesie             profesión            
profesiune           profesión            
profesoară           profesor             
profesor             profesor             
profet               profeta              
profetic             profético            
profund              profundo             
profunditate         profundidad          
profuziune           profusión            
progenitor           progenitor           
prognostic           pronóstico           
program              programa             
progres              progreso             
progresie            progresión           
progresiune          progresión           
prohibi              prohibir             
prohibiție           prohibición          
proiect              proyecto             
proiecție            proyección           
proiectil            proyectil            
prolaps              prolapso             
proletar             proletario           
prolix               prolijo              
promiscuu            promiscuo            
promisiune           promesa              
promontoriu          promontorio          
promoțiune           promotor             
promotoare           promotor             
promotor             promotor             
promova              promover             
promovat             promovido            
prompt               pronto               
promulga             promulgar            
pronominal           pronominal           
pronostic            pronóstico           
pronume              pronombre            
pronunț              pronunciar           
pronunțat            pronunciado          
propaga              propagar             
propagandă           propaganda           
propensiune          propensión           
propice              propicio             
proporție            proporción           
proporții            proporción           
proporțional         proporcional         
proporționalitate    proporcionalidad     
proporțiune          proporción           
proprietar           propietario          
proprietară          propietario          
propune              proponer             
proroga              prorrogar            
proscrie             proscribir           
prospect             prospecto            
prosperitate         prosperidad          
prostituată          prostituta           
prostitută           prostituta           
prostituție          prostitución         
protecție            protección           
protector            protector            
proteja              proteger             
protocol             protocolo            
protuberanță         protuberancia        
proverb              proverbio            
proverbial           proverbial           
providență           providencia          
provincial           provincial           
provincie            provincia            
provocație           provocación          
provocator           provocador           
proxim               próximo              
proximitate          proximidad           
proză                prosa                
prozaic              prosaico             
prozodie             prosodia             
prudent              prudente             
prurigo              prurigo              
prurit               prurito              
psalm                salmo                
psalmist             salmista             
psihedelic           psicodélico          
pubertate            pubertad             
pubescent            pubescente           
pubis                pubis                
publică              público              
publican             publicano            
publicație           publicación          
publicațiune         publicación          
puding               pudín                
puerilitate          puerilidad           
pulie                polea                
pulmon               pulmón               
pulpă                pulpa                
puls                 pulso                
pulsar               pulsar               
pulso                pulso                
punci                ponche               
punct                punto                
puncție              punción              
puncțiune            punción              
punic                púnico               
punice               púnico               
punițiune            punitivo             
punitiv              punitivo             
pur                  puro                 
pură                 puro                 
purces               procedió             
purgare              purgare              
purgație             purgación            
purgatoriu           purgatorio           
purica               pulga                
puricat              pulgas               
purifica             purificar            
puritan              puritano             
puroi                pus                  
purpură              púrpura              
purulent             purulento            
pustulos             pustuloso            
putativ              putativo             
putativă             putativo             
putrefacție          putrefacción         
puzzolană            puzolana             
quadrivium           cuadrivio            
quaker               cuáquero             
rabic                rabia                
rabie                rabia                
racemi               racimo               
radar                radar                
radian               radián               
radiant              radiante             
radiație             radiación            
radiațiune           radiación            
radical              radical              
radius               radio                
ralanti              ralentí              
rampă                rampa                
rampant              rampante             
rânced               rancio               
râncezi              rancio               
rapace               rapaz                
rapacitate           rapacidad            
rapid                rápido               
rarefacțiune         rarefacción          
ratafia              ratafía              
rație                ración               
rațional             racional             
rațiune              razón                
râde                 reír                 
rebec                rabel                
rebel                rebelde              
rebeliune            rebelión             
recalcitrant         recalcitrante        
receptacul           receptáculo          
recepție             recepción            
recepțiune           receptor             
receptiv             receptivo            
receptor             receptor             
recesiune            recesión             
rechiziție           requisición          
reciprocitate        reciprocidad         
recita               recitar              
recrea               recrear              
recreat              recreado             
recreație            recreación           
rect                 recto                
recte                rector               
rectifica            rectificar           
rectitudine          rectitud             
recțiune             rector               
recto                recto                
rector               rector               
rectum               recto                
recupera             recuperar            
recuperator          recuperación         
reduce               reducir              
redundanță           redundancia          
reduplica            reduplicar           
refectoriu           refectorio           
referendum           referéndum           
referentă            referente            
reflecție            reflexión            
reflex               reflejo              
reflexie             reflejo              
reflexiv             reflexivo            
reflexologie         reflexología         
reformator           reformador           
refractar            refractario          
refracție            refracción           
refracțiune          refracción           
refrigera            refrigerar           
refrigerație         refrigeración        
refugii              refugios             
refugiu              refugio              
refuta               refutar              
regată               regata               
regenera             regenerar            
regenerat            regenerar            
regent               regente              
regim                régimen              
regină               reina                
regional             regional             
regiune              región               
regn                 reino                
regres               regresión            
regresiune           regresión            
relație              relación             
relegat              relegado             
relege               relegar              
releu                relé                 
relict               relictos             
relictă              relictos             
relicvă              reliquia             
religie              religión             
religios             religioso            
religiozitate        religiosidad         
religiune            religión             
remediabil           remediable           
remediu              remedio              
remige               rémige               
reminiscență         reminiscencia        
remite               remitir              
remisiune            remisión             
remodela             remodelar            
remunerație          remuneración         
ren                  reno                 
renal                renal                
renan                renano               
reni                 reno                 
renova               renovar              
renovat              renovado             
renunța              renunciar            
repara               reparar              
reparabil            reparable            
reparațiune          reparación           
reparator            reparación           
repatria             repatriar            
repercusiune         repercusión          
repertoriu           repertorio           
repeta               repetir              
repeți               repetir              
repetiție            repetición           
repetițiune          repetición           
represiune           represión            
represiv             represivo            
represor             represor             
reprezenta           representar          
reprima              reprimir             
reprobabil           reprobable           
reproș               reprochar            
reproșa              reprochar            
reptil               reptil               
republică            república            
repugnant            repugnante           
repulsie             repulsión            
repulsiune           repulsión            
reputație            reputación           
reputațiune          reputación           
resciziune           rescisión            
rescript             rescripto            
resignare            resignare            
respecta             respeto              
respira              respirar             
respirabil           respirable           
respirație           respiración          
respirațiune         respiración          
responsabil          responsable          
restaura             restaurar            
restaurație          restauración         
restaurațiune        restauración         
restaurator          restaurador          
restituție           restitución          
restituțiune         restitución          
restricție           restricción          
restricțiune         restricción          
restrictiv           restrictivo          
resurecție           resurrección         
resuscita            resucitar            
retenție             retención            
reticență            reticencia           
reticulo             retículo             
retină               retina               
retoric              retórico             
retorică             retórica             
retracție            retracción           
retroceda            retroceder           
retrograd            retrógrada           
retrogradație        retrogradación       
retrogradațiune      retrogradación       
retrospectiv         retrospectivo        
reumatic             reumático            
reumatism            reumatismo           
revela               revelar              
revelație            revelación           
revelațiune          revelación           
reverend             reverendo            
reverendă            reverendo            
reverență            reverencia           
reversie             reversión            
reversiune           reversión            
revizie              revisión             
reviziune            revisión             
revoca               revocar              
revocabil            revocable            
revocat              revocado             
revoluție            revolución           
revoluțiune          revolución           
revolver             revólver             
revulsie             revulsión            
revulsiune           revulsión            
revulsiv             revulsivo            
rezecție             resección            
rezedă               reseda               
rezida               residir              
rezident             residente            
reziduu              residuo              
rezină               resina               
rezista              resistir             
rezistor             resistor             
rezoluție            resolución           
rezolva              resolver             
rezonanță            resonancia           
rezuma               resumir              
rictus               rictus               
ridicol              ridículo             
ridicul              ridículo             
rigă                 rey                  
rigid                rígido               
rigoare              rigor                
rimă                 rima                 
rinichi              riñón                
rinocer              rinoceronte          
risca                riesgo               
ritual               ritual               
rival                rival                
rivală               rival                
rivalitate           rivalidad            
rizibil              risible              
robust               robusto              
rococo               rococó               
roibă                rubia                
rom                  ron                  
romanic              romance              
rondel               rondel               
roquefort            roquefort            
rosbif               rosbif               
rostral              rostral              
rotație              rotación             
rotațiune            rotación             
rotondă              rotonda              
rotulă               rótula               
rozaceŭ              rosácea              
rozariu              rosario              
rubarbă              ruibarbo             
rubidiu              rubidio              
rudiment             rudimento            
ruină                ruina                
ruletă               ruleta               
rural                rural                
rustic               rústico              
rusticitate          rusticidad           
rută                 ruta                 
rutină               rutina               
sabat                sábado               
sable                sable                
sabotare             sabotear             
sabota               sabotear             
șacal                chacal               
sacerdot             sacerdote            
sacerdotal           sacerdotal           
sacrament            sacramento           
sacrifica            sacrificar           
sacrificare          sacrificar           
sacrileg             sacrílego            
sacrilegiu           sacrilegio           
sacristan            sacristán            
sacristie            sacristía            
sacrosanct           sacrosanto           
saducheu             saduceo              
safen                safena               
safic                sáfico               
safir                zafiro               
sagace               sagaz                
sagacitate           sagacidad            
saharină             sacarina             
șal                  chal                 
salam                salami               
salamandră           salamandra           
salariu              salario              
sălbatec             salvaje              
sălbatic             salvaje              
salicină             salicina             
salin                salina               
salivă               saliva               
salivație            salivación           
salivațiune          salivación           
salmon               salmón               
salpetru             salitre              
sălta                saltar               
salvator             salvador             
salvie               salvia               
șaman                chamán               
șambelan             chambelán            
sanctifica           santificar           
sanctitate           santidad             
sanctuar             santuario            
sandal               sandalia             
sandală              sandalia             
sandarac             sandáraca            
șanfren              chaflán              
sânge                sangre               
sângera              sangrar              
sanguină             sangre               
sangvin              sangre               
sano                 sano                 
șantaj               chantaje             
santină              sentina              
santinelă            centinela            
șaperon              chaperón             
saponaria            saponaria            
saponifica           saponificar          
săptămână            semana               
șaradă               charada              
sarcasm              sarcasmo             
sarcofag             sarcófago            
sarcom               sarcoma              
sardea               sardina              
șarlatan             charlatán            
satelit              satélite             
sațietate            saciedad             
satinat              satén                
satisface            satisfacer           
satisfacție          satisfacción         
satisfacțiune        satisfacción         
satrap               sátrapa              
satrapie             satrapía             
saturație            saturación           
saturațiune          saturación           
saturnalii           saturnales           
saxifragă            saxífraga            
saxofon              saxófono             
scabioasă            escabiosa            
scabios              escabiosa            
scabros              escabroso            
scală                escala               
scalen               escaleno             
scandal              escándalo            
scandaliza           escandalizar         
scandalizat          escandalizado        
scandalos            escandaloso          
scaner               escáner              
scapulă              escápula             
scarifica            escarificar          
scenic               escénico             
sceptic              escéptico            
sceptru              cetro                
schemă               esquema              
schematism           esquematismo         
schi                 esquí                
schiere              esquí                
schismă              cisma                
schismatic           cismático            
sciatic              ciático              
scit                 escita               
sclav                esclavo              
sclavă               esclavo              
școală               escuela              
scorbut              escorbuto            
scorie               escoria              
scorpion             escorpión            
scrib                escriba              
scriptoriu           escritorio           
scrot                escroto              
scrupul              escrúpulos           
scrutător            escrutador           
scuamos              escamosas            
sculpta              esculpir             
sculptor             escultor             
sculptură            escultura            
scuză                excusar              
scuza                excusar              
seboree              seborrea             
sebum                sebo                 
secat                secar                
secesiune            secesión             
sechestra            secuestrar           
secol                siglo                
secret               secreto              
secreta              secretar             
secretar             secretario           
secretară            secretario           
secreție             secreción            
secrețiune           secreto              
sectă                secta                
sectat               sección              
secție               sección              
secțiune             sección              
sector               sector               
secular              secular              
secund               segundo              
secundă              segundo              
secundar             secundario           
secundi              segundo              
securitate           seguridad            
secvență             secuencia            
sedan                sedán                
sedat                sedado               
sedentar             sedentario           
sediment             sedimento            
sedimento            sedimento            
sedițios             sedicioso            
sedițiune            sedición             
seduce               seducir              
seducție             seducción            
sedus                seducido             
șef                  jefe                 
segment              segmento             
segrega              segregar             
segregat             segregada            
segregație           segregación          
selecție             selección            
semestru             semestre             
seminal              seminal              
seminar              seminario            
seminifer            seminífero           
semnifica            significar           
senatoare            senador              
senator              senador              
sene                 sene                 
senil                senil                
senilia              senil                
seninătate           serenidad            
sensibil             sensible             
sensibilă            sensible             
sensibile            sensible             
sensibilitate        sensibilidad         
sensual              sensual              
sentențios           sentencioso          
sentință             sentencia            
senzual              sensual              
separabil            separable            
separație            separación           
separațiune          separación           
separator            separador            
septimă              séptimo              
septuagenar          septuagenario        
sepulcral            sepulcral            
ser                  suero                
serafim              serafín              
serenitate           serenidad            
serie                serie                
serjă                sarga                
serv                 siervo               
șervet               servilleta           
servi                servir               
serviciŭ             servicio             
servit               servido              
servitudine          servidumbre          
servitute            servidumbre          
sesil                sésil                
sesiune              sesión               
sevă                 savia                
sex                  sexo                 
sexagenar            sexagenario          
sexagenară           sexagenario          
sexagesimal          sexagésimo           
sexo                 sexo                 
sextant              sextante             
sexual               sexual               
sferă                esfera               
sferic               esférico             
sfincter             esfínter             
sibarit              sibarita             
sibilă               sibila               
sibilant             sibilante            
sibilantă            sibilante            
sibilin              sibilino             
sicheră              sidra                
sideral              sideral              
siderit              siderita             
sigilo               sigilo               
sigur                seguro               
silabă               sílaba               
silențios            silencioso           
silicat              silicato             
silice               sílice               
silică               sílice               
siliculă             silícula             
șiling               chelín               
silogism             silogismo            
silogistic           silogístico          
silogistică          silogístico          
siluetă              silueta              
silueta              silueta              
silvi                silvicultura         
silvicultură         silvicultura         
simbolic             simbólico            
simbolică            simbólico            
simetrie             simetría             
simfonie             sinfonía             
simian               simio                
simoniac             simoniaco            
simplifica           simplificar          
simplificat          simplificado         
simplu               simple               
simula               simular              
simulacru            simulacro            
simulație            simulación           
sinceritate          sinceridad           
sincopă              síncope              
sindic               síndico              
sinecdocă            sinécdoque           
sinecură             sinecura             
sinereză             sinéresis            
singular             singular             
singularitate        singularidad         
sinistra             siniestro            
sinistru             siniestro            
sinonimie            sinonimia            
sintaxă              sintaxis             
sinucidere           suicidio             
sinuos               sinuoso              
sinus                seno                 
sirenă               sirena               
sirene               sirenas              
siriacă              siríaco              
sistem               sistema              
sit                  sitio                
situa                situar               
situlă               sitio                
slogan               eslogan              
smoching             esmoquin             
soare                sol                  
sobrietate           sobriedad            
sobru                sobrio               
sociabil             sociable             
social               social               
societate            sociedad             
socio                socio                
sodă                 soda                 
sofa                 sofá                 
sofist               sofista              
sofistă              sofista              
sofistic             sofístico            
solar                solar                
solari               solar                
solariu              solárium             
solear               sóleo                
solecism             solecismo            
solemn               solemne              
solemnitate          solemnidad           
solicita             solicitar            
solicitare           solicitar            
solicitudine         solicitud            
solid                sólido               
solipsism            solipsismo           
solitar              solitario            
solstițiŭ            solsticio            
solubil              soluble              
soluție              solución             
soluțiune            solución             
solvabil             solvente             
solvent              solvente             
somnolent            soñoliento           
sonată               sonata               
sonet                soneto               
sonoritate           sonoridad            
sopran               soprano              
soprană              soprano              
sorbet               sorbete              
sordid               sórdido              
sorg                 sorgo                
sorgo                sorgo                
spadă                espada               
spadasin             espadachín           
spaghete             espaguetis           
spartan              espartano            
spațios              espacioso            
spațiŭ               espacio              
spatulă              espátula             
special              especial             
specială             especial             
specialitate         especialidad         
specios              especioso            
spectacul            espectáculo          
spectator            espectador           
spectru              espectro             
specul               espéculo             
specular             especular            
specula              especular            
speculație           especulación         
speculațiune         especulación         
sperat               esperado             
spermă               esperma              
spinàl               espinal              
spinetă              espineta             
spionaj              espionaje            
spirant              espirante            
spirit               espíritu             
spiritual            espiritual           
spirometru           espirómetro          
spital               hospital             
splendid             espléndido           
splendoare           esplendor            
splenic              esplénico            
spontan              espontáneo           
spută                esputo               
stabil               estable              
stabilitate          estabilidad          
stamină              estambre             
stamini              estambre             
standard             estándar             
stat                 estado               
stație               estación             
staționar            estacionario         
stațiune             estación             
statuă               estado               
statuar              estatuaria           
statuară             estatuaria           
statuie              estatua              
statură              estatura             
status               estado               
stelar               estelar              
stepă                estepa               
steril               estéril              
sterilitate          esterilidad          
stigmă               estigma              
stigmat              estigma              
stigmati             estigma              
știință              ciencia              
stil                 estilo               
stimare              estimar              
stimat               estimado             
stimul               estímulo             
stimula              estimular            
stipendiŭ            estipendio           
stipula              estipular            
stipulație           estipulación         
stipulațiune         estipulación         
stoic                estoico              
stomah               estomacal            
strangula            estrangular          
strangulat           estrangulado         
strangulație         estrangulación       
stratagemă           estratagema          
strateg              estratega            
strati               estratos             
stratigrafie         estratigrafía        
stratosferă          estratosfera         
stratus              estrato              
stres                estrés               
strident             estridente           
stridor              estridor             
strofă               estrofa              
structură            estructura           
struț                avestruz             
stuc                 estuco               
studios              estudioso            
stupefacție          estupefacción        
stupefacțiune        estupefacción        
stupid               estúpido             
stupoare             estupor              
stupor               estupor              
subaltern            subalterno           
subiacent            subyacente           
subiectiv            subjetivo            
subiectiva           subjetivo            
subjonctiv           subjuntivo           
sublim               sublime              
sublima              sublime              
sublimat             sublimar             
sublimitate          sublimidad           
submerge             sumergir             
submersiune          sumersión            
subroga              subrogado            
subrogație           subrogación          
subsidiŭ             subsidio             
subteran             subterráneo          
subterană            subterráneo          
subterfugiŭ          subterfugio          
subtil               sutil                
suburban             suburbano            
suburbie             suburbio             
subversiune          subversión           
subzista             subsistir            
subzistență          subsistencia         
suc                  jugo                 
succesiune           sucesión             
succesoare           sucesor              
succesor             sucesor              
sucomba              sucumbir             
sucțiune             succión              
sucub                súcubo               
sudamină             sudamina             
sudație              sudación             
sudorific            sudorífico           
suficient            suficiente           
sufix                sufijo               
sufragiŭ             sufragio             
sufuziune            sufusiones           
sugera               sugerir              
sugestiv             sugestivo            
șuierare             silbado              
sulf                 azufre               
sumac                zumaque              
sunet                sonido               
supă                 sopa                 
superficial          superficial          
superficie           superficie           
superfluu            superfluo            
superior             superior             
superlativ           superlativo          
supermarket          supermercado         
superstiție          superstición         
superstițios         supersticioso        
supin                supino               
supinație            supinación           
suplicare            suplicare            
supoziție            suposición           
supozitor            supositorio          
suprafață            superficie           
suprem               supremo              
supresiune           supresión            
suprima              suprimir             
suprimat             suprimido            
supurație            supuración           
surdo                sordo                
surfing              surf                 
susceptibil          susceptible          
suspans              suspense             
suspenda             suspender            
suspendat            suspendido           
suspens              suspense             
suspensie            suspensión           
suveran              soberano             
sveter               suéter               
tabernacol           tabernáculo          
tabernacul           tabernáculo          
tabes                tabes                
tabloid              tabloide             
tabular              tabular              
tabulare             tabular              
taburet              taburete             
tacit                tácito               
taciturn             taciturno            
tact                 tacto                
tactil               táctil               
taftă                tafetán              
talar                talar                
talent               talento              
talion               talión               
talisman             talismán             
tamarisc             tamarisco            
tamariscă            tamarisco            
tâmplă               templo               
tandem               tándem               
tangent              tangente             
tangibil             tangible             
tanin                tanino               
tarantelă            tarantela            
tarhon               estragón             
tarlatan             tarlatana            
taroc                tarot                
tartă                tarta                
tartană              tartán               
tatuaj               tatuaje              
tăun                 tábano               
tăuni                tábano               
taurină              taurina              
tauro                tauro                
tavernă              taberna              
teatral              teatral              
teatru               teatro               
tegument             tegumento            
tehnic               técnico              
teletip              teletipo             
telur                telurio              
temă                 tema                 
temeritate           temeridad            
temperament          temperamento         
temperanță           templanza            
temperatură          temperatura          
tempestă             tempestad            
templu               templo               
tempo                tempo                
temporal             temporal             
temporală            temporal             
temporalitate        temporalidad         
temut                temido               
tenace               tenaz                
tenacitate           tenacidad            
tenie                tenia                
tenor                tenor                
tenorino             tenorino             
tentacul             tentáculo            
teologie             teología             
teoremă              teorema              
terebint             terebintos           
terestru             terrestre            
teribil              terrible             
tericol              terrícolas           
terină               terrina              
teritorial           territorial          
teritoriu            territorio           
terme                termas               
termin               terminar             
terminal             terminal             
terminație           terminación          
terminațiune         terminación          
terminus             término              
termit               termita              
ternar               ternario             
teroare              terror               
terțiar              terciario            
testamentar          testamentario        
testator             testador             
testicul             testículo            
testimonial          testimonial          
testimoniu           testimonio           
tetrarh              tetrarca             
tetrarhie            tetrarquía           
teutonic             teutónico            
text                 texto                
textil               textil               
textile              textiles             
textură              textura              
teză                 tesis                
tezaur               tesauro              
thesis               tesis                
tiară                tiara                
tibie                tibia                
tigru                tigre                
timid                tímido               
timpan               tímpano              
tinctură             tintura              
tipic                típico               
tiran                tirano               
tirană               tirano               
tiranic              tiránico             
titan                titanio              
titani               titanes              
titlu                título               
togă                 toga                 
tolera               tolerar              
tolerabil            tolerable            
tolerant             tolerante            
toleranță            tolerancia           
ton                  tono                 
tonsură              tonsura              
tonus                tono                 
topaz                topacio              
torace               tórax                
torent               torrente             
torid                tórrido              
torsiune             torsión              
torticolis           tortícolis           
tortuos              tortuoso             
tortuozitate         tortuosidad          
tortură              tortura              
toxic                tóxico               
tract                tracto               
tracțiune            tracción             
tractus              tracto               
tradiție             tradición            
traduce              traducir             
trafic               tráfico              
tragedie             tragedia             
tragic               trágico              
traiectorie          trayectoria          
trambulină           trampolín            
tramvai              tranvía              
trans                trans                
transă               trance               
transcrie            transcribir          
transcripție         transcripción        
transcripțiune       transcripción        
transfera            transferir           
transferare          transferir           
transfigura          transfigurar         
transfigurat         transfigurado        
transforma           transformar          
transfuziune         transfusión          
transgresa           transgredir          
transgresat          transgredido         
transgresiune        transgresión         
transgresor          transgresor          
transige             transige             
transitiv            transitivo           
transitoriŭ          transitorio          
translucid           translúcido          
transmarin           transmarino          
transmigrație        transmigración       
transmigrațiune      transmigración       
transmisiune         transmisión          
transmuta            transmutar           
transmutație         transmutación        
transportare         transportar          
transportat          transportados        
transpoziție         transposición        
transpozitiv         transposición        
transpune            transponer           
transvers            transverso           
transversal          transverso           
tranzacție           transacción          
tranzistor           transistor           
tranziție            transición           
tranzitiv            transitivo           
tranzitoriu          transitorio          
trapez               trapecio             
tratat               tratado              
traumatic            traumático           
trei                 tres                 
tremura              temblar              
tren                 tren                 
trenă                tren                 
trepan               trépano              
triadă               tríada               
triangular           triangular           
trib                 tribu                
tribulație           tribulación          
tribulațiune         tribulación          
tribun               tribuna              
tribună              tribuna              
tribunal             tribunal             
tribunat             tribunado            
triceps              tríceps              
tricliniŭ            triclinio            
tricolor             tricolor             
tricorn              tricornio            
trident              tridente             
tril                 trino                
trilingv             trilingüe            
trimestru            trimestre            
trinchet             trinquete            
trinitate            trinidad             
trio                 trío                 
tripartit            tripartito           
tripudia             tripudia             
triremă              trirreme             
trist                triste               
tristeță             tristeza             
triturație           trituraciones        
triumfa              triunfo              
triumfal             triunfal             
triumvir             triunviro            
triumvirat           triunvirato          
triunghi             triángulo            
triunghiular         triangular           
triunviral           triunviral           
trocar               trocar               
troheŭ               troqueo              
troieni              troyanos             
troleibuz            trolebús             
trombon              trombón              
tron                 trono                
tropic               trópico              
trufă                trufa                
trupă                tropa                
tub                  tubo                 
tubă                 tuba                 
tubercul             tubérculo            
tubul                tubo                 
tubular              tubular              
tuf                  toba                 
tumefacție           tumefacción          
tumoare              tumor                
tumul                túmulo               
tumult               tumulto              
tumultuos            tumultuoso           
tunel                túnel                
tunică               túnica               
turb                 turba                
turban               turbante             
turbid               túrbido              
turbină              turbina              
turbulent            turbulento           
turbulență           turbulencia          
turkmen              turcomano            
turnichet            torniquete           
tuși                 tos                  
tușit                tos                  
tutelă               tutela               
tutelar              tutelar              
tutor                tutor                
tutore               tutor                
ubicuu               ubicuo               
ubicvist             ubicuo               
ufologie             ufología             
ulcerație            ulceración           
ulceros              ulceroso             
ultim                último               
ultramontan          ultramontano         
uman                 humano               
umanitate            humanidad            
umbelă               umbela               
umbeli               umbela               
umiditate            humedad              
umil                 humilde              
umili                humilde              
umilit               humilde              
umilitate            humildad             
umoare               humor                
umor                 humor                
una                  uno                  
unanimitate          unanimidad           
uncial               uncial               
unghi                ángulo               
ungŭent              ungüento             
ungulat              ungulados            
unicorn              unicornio            
unifica              unificar             
uniform              uniforme             
uniformă             uniforme             
uniformitate         uniformidad          
unire                unión                
unison               unísono              
unit                 unido                
unitate              unidad               
uniune               unión                
univers              universo             
universal            universal            
universalii          universales          
universalitate       universalidad        
universitate         universidad          
unu                  uno                  
unul                 uno                  
urban                urbano               
urbanitate           urbanidad            
urgent               urgente              
urină                orina                
urinal               urinario             
urinare              urinario             
urina                orinar               
urnă                 urna                 
urticarie            urticaria            
urzică               ortiga               
uter                 útero                
uterin               uterino              
util                 útil                 
utila                útil                 
utilitate            utilidad             
uvertură             obertura             
uvulă                úvula                
uzucapiune           usucapión            
uzufruct             usufructo            
uzufructuar          usufructuario        
uzufructuară         usufructuario        
uzurpa               usurpar              
uzurpator            usurpador            
vacant               vacante              
vacuolă              vacuola              
vag                  vago                 
vagin                vagina               
vagină               vagina               
vale                 valle                
valid                válido               
valida               validar              
valoare              valor                
vals                 vals                 
valvulă              válvula              
vampir               vampiro              
vână                 vena                 
vandalic             vandálico            
vanitate             vanidad              
vapori               vapor                
vaporos              vaporoso             
variabil             variable             
variabilă            variable             
variat               variado              
variație             variación            
variațiune           variación            
varicos              varicoso             
varia                variar               
varietate            variedad             
vario                vario                
variolă              viruela              
vâscos               viscoso              
vaso                 vaso                 
vast                 vasto                
vastitate            vastedad             
vates                vates                
vaticina             vaticina             
vaticinar            vaticinar            
vectoare             vector               
vector               vector               
vegeta               vegetar              
vegetarian           vegetariano          
vegetație            vegetación           
vehemență            vehemencia           
vehicul              vehículo             
velocitate           velocidad            
velum                velo                 
venă                 vena                 
venal                venal                
venalitate           venalidad            
venerabil            venerable            
venial               venial               
venie                venir                
venos                venoso               
ventila              ventilar             
ventilație           ventilación          
ventilațiune         ventilación          
ventral              ventral              
ventricul            ventrículo           
ventriloc            ventrílocuo          
ventrilocă           ventrílocuo          
veracitate           veracidad            
verb                 verbo                
verbal               verbal               
verbină              verbena              
verde                verde                
verdict              veredicto            
vermiform            vermiforme           
vermifug             vermífugo            
vermillon            bermellón            
vermut               vermut               
vernacular           vernáculo            
vernal               vernal               
vero                 vero                 
vers                 verso                
versificat           versificada          
versificațiune       versificación        
versificatoare       versificación        
versiune             versión              
verso                verso                
vertebră             vértebra             
vertebrat            vertebrado           
vertex               vértice              
vertical             vertical             
verticală            vertical             
vertiginos           vertiginoso          
vertij               vértigo              
verucă               verruga              
veșmânt              vestimenta           
vestală              vestal               
vestibul             vestíbulo            
vestigiŭ             vestigio             
veteran              veterano             
veterană             veterano             
veterinar            veterinario          
vexa                 vejar                
vezică               vejiga               
veziculă             vesícula             
viabil               viable               
viaduct              viaducto             
vibra                vibrar               
vibrant              vibrante             
vibrat               vibrado              
vibrație             vibración            
vibrațiune           vibración            
vibrato              vibrato              
vibro                vibro                
vicar                vicario              
vicia                viciar               
viciat               viciado              
vicinal              vecinal              
vicios               vicioso              
vicisitudine         vicisitud            
viciŭ                vicio                
victimă              víctima              
victoria             victoria             
victorios            victorioso           
video                vídeo                
vier                 verraco              
vigil                vigilia              
vigilent             vigilante            
vigilență            vigilancia           
vil                  vil                  
vilă                 villa                
vinicol              vinificación         
vinietă              viñeta               
violatoare           violadores           
violator             violador             
violent              violento             
violență             violencia            
virago               virago               
virgin               virgen               
virgină              virgen               
virginal             virginal             
virginitate          virginidad           
virilitate           virilidad            
virologie            virología            
virtual              virtual              
virtuos              virtuoso             
virtute              virtud               
virtutea             virtud               
virulent             virulento            
virulență            virulencia           
virus                virus                
viscere              vísceras             
visco                visco                
vîscos               viscoso              
vital                vital                
vitalitate           vitalidad            
vitamină             vitamina             
vitelo               vitelo               
viti                 vid                  
viticol              vitivinícola         
viticultoare         viticultor           
viticultor           viticultor           
viticultură          viticultura          
vitrifica            vitrificar           
vitupera             vituperada           
vituperare           vituperare           
vivacitate           vivacidad            
vivariu              vivero               
vivificant           vivificada           
vivipar              vivíparo             
vivisecție           vivisección          
viză                 visa                 
vizibil              visible              
vizibilitate         visibilidad          
vizită               visitar              
vizita               visitar              
viziune              visión               
vizon                visón                
vizual               visual               
vocabulă             vocablo              
vocabular            vocabulario          
vocal                vocal                
vocală               vocal                
vocație              vocación             
vocațiune            vocación             
vocativ              vocativo             
voce                 voz                  
voci                 voces                
vodevil              vodevil              
volant               volante              
volatil              volátil              
volubilitate         volubilidad          
volum                volumen              
voluminos            voluminoso           
voluntar             voluntario           
voluptos             voluptuoso           
voluptuos            voluptuoso           
volută               voluta               
vomer                vómer                
vomita               vomitar              
vorace               voraz                
voracitate           voracidad            
vortex               vórtice              
votiv                votivo               
vulgar               vulgar               
vulgaritate          vulgaridad           
vulnerabil           vulnerable           
vulnerar             vulneraria           
vulnerare            vulneraria           
vulvă                vulva                
yankeŭ               yanqui               
zămisli              concebir             
zeitate              deidad               
zel                  celo                 
zer                  suero                
zero                 cero                 
zeŭ                  dios                 
zgură                escoria              
zinc                 zinc                 
ziŭă                 día                  
zodiac               zodíaco              
zvelt                esbelto              
