COGNATE PAIRS

ROMANIAN             TURKISH              

abac                 abaküs               
abacă                abaküs               
aberație             aberasyon            
ablativ              ablatif              
abona                abone                
abonat               abone                
abscisă              apsis                
acacie               akasya               
academie             akademi              
accesoriu            aksesuar             
acetat               asetat               
acetic               asetik               
acetilenă            asetilen             
aceton               aseton               
acetonă              aseton               
acetos               asetik               
acid                 asit                 
acido                asit                 
acordeon             akordeon             
acredita             akredite             
acreditare           akreditasyon         
acreditiv            akreditif            
acrilic              akrilik              
acro                 akro                 
acrobat              akrobat              
acrobată             akrobat              
acropolă             akropol              
acropole             akropol              
acrostih             akrostiş             
activ                aktif                
actor                aktör                
actriță              aktris               
actuar               aktüer               
acupunctură          akupunktur           
acustic              akustik              
acustică             akustik              
acut                 akut                 
acvariu              akvaryum             
acvifer              akifer               
adaptare             adaptasyon           
adrenalină           adrenalin            
adresă               adres                
adresantă            adres                
adresare             adres                
adresa               adres                
advocat              avukat               
afazie               afazi                
afrodiziac           afrodizyak           
aftă                 aft                  
agavă                agave                
agave                agave                
agent                ajan                 
agenție              ajans                
agnostic             agnostik             
agorafobie           agorafobi            
ajur                 ajur                 
alarmă               alarm                
albatros             albatros             
albinism             albinizm             
albinos              albino               
album                albüm                
albumen              albümin              
albumină             albümin              
alcool               alkol                
aldehidă             aldehit              
alegorie             alegori              
alergie              alerji               
alfa                 alfa                 
alfabet              alfabe               
alfanumeric          alfanümerik          
algă                 alg                  
alizarină            alizarin             
almanah              almanak              
aloe                 aloe                 
alterna              alternatif           
alternant            alternatif           
alternativ           alternatif           
alternativă          alternatif           
alternator           alternatör           
altimetru            altimetre            
altruizm             altruizm             
aluminiu             alüminyum            
aluviune             alüvyon              
amator               amatör               
ambulanță            ambulans             
americiu             amerikyum            
ametist              ametist              
amfibian             amfibi               
amfibiu              amfibi               
amfiteatru           amfitiyatro          
amiantă              amyant               
amibă                amip                 
amină                amin                 
amiral               amiral               
amnezie              amnezi               
amniotic             amniyotik            
amoniac              amonyak              
amorf                amorf                
amortizare           amortisman           
amortizor            amortisör            
amper                amper                
amplificare          amplifikasyon        
ampulă               ampul                
anabolism            anabolizma           
anafilaxie           anafilaksi           
analgezie            analjezi             
analiză              analiz               
analizare            analiz               
ananas               ananas               
anarhie              anarşi               
anatomie             anatomi              
anatomo              anatomik             
andezit              andezit              
andro                andro                
androgen             androjen             
android              android              
anecdotă             anekdot              
anemie               anemi                
anemiat              anemik               
anemometru           anemometre           
anemonă              anemon               
anestezie            anestezi             
anesteziere          anestezi             
anghină              anjin                
angină               anjin                
angio                anjiyo               
animare              animasyon            
animație             animasyon            
animațiune           animasyon            
animator             animasyon            
animism              animizm              
animist              animist              
animizm              animizm              
anod                 anot                 
anomalie             anomali              
anomie               anomi                
anonim               anonim               
anormal              anormal              
antenă               anten                
anticorp             antikor              
antigen              antijen              
antilopă             antilop              
antimoniu            antimon              
antipatie            antipati             
antologie            antoloji             
antracit             antrasit             
antropo              antropolojik         
antropometrie        antropometri         
anus                 anüs                 
aortă                aort                 
apendicită           apandisit            
apnee                apne                 
apolitic             apolitik             
apostilă             apostil              
apostrof             apostrof             
apostrofă            apostrof             
arbaletă             arbalet              
arc                  ark                  
ardezie              arduvaz              
arenă                arena                
argon                argon                
argot                argo                 
argou                argo                 
arhaic               arkaik               
arheologie           arkeoloji            
arhiduce             arşidük              
arhivă               arşiv                
arhiva               arşiv                
aristocrat           aristokrat           
aritmetică           aritmetik            
aritmie              aritmi               
armator              armatör              
armătură             armatür              
aromat               aromatik             
arsenic              arsenik              
arteră               arter                
artezian             artezyen             
artrită              artrit               
arzător              brülör               
as                   as                   
ascensor             asansör              
asfalt               asfalt               
asfalta              asfalt               
asfaltat             asfalt               
asimilare            asimilasyon          
asimilat             asimile              
asimilație           asimilasyon          
asimilațiune         asimilasyon          
asimptotă            asimptot             
asistent             asistan              
asocial              asosyal              
aspirator            aspiratör            
aspirină             aspirin              
asteroid             asteroit             
astmă                astım                
astrologie           astroloji            
astronaut            astronot             
astronaută           astronot             
astronomie           astronomi            
atavism              atavizm              
atavizm              atavizm              
ateu                 ateist               
ateism               ateizm               
atelier              atölye               
atlet                atlet                
atletă               atlet                
atmo                 atmosferik           
atmosferă            atmosfer             
atol                 atol                 
atom                 atom                 
atonal               atonal               
atrofie              atrofi               
atrofiere            atrofi               
atropină             atropin              
aut                  aut                  
autarhie             otarşi               
autentic             otantik              
autism               otizm                
autobuz              otobüs               
autoclavă            otoklav              
autocrat             otokrat              
autocrație           otokrasi             
autodidact           otodidakt            
automat              otomatik             
autopsie             otopsi               
autopsia             otopsi               
avantaj              avantaj              
avantaja             avantaj              
averaj               averaj               
avocado              avokado              
avocat               avukat               
avocată              avukat               
axiomă               aksiyom              
axon                 akson                
azalee               açelya               
azbest               asbest               
azimut               azimut               
azot                 azot                 
bacalaureat          bakalorya            
bacalaureată         bakalorya            
bacil                basil                
bacterian            bakteri              
bactericid           bakterisit           
bacterie             bakteri              
bagaj                bagaj                
baie                 banyo                
balast               balast               
balata               balata               
balcon               balkon               
balenă               balina               
balerină             balerin              
balet                bale                 
balistic             balistik             
balistică            balistik             
balon                balon                
bambus               bambu                
bandă                bant                 
baobab               baobap               
bar                  bar                  
bară                 bar                  
baraj                baraj                
barbar               barbar               
baricadă             barikat              
baricadare           barikat              
baricada             barikat              
barieră              bariyer              
bariton              bariton              
bariu                baryum               
barman               barmen               
barometru            barometre            
baron                baron                
bas                  bas                  
baschet              basketbol            
batist               patiska              
bauxită              boksit               
bazalt               bazalt               
bazilică             bazilika             
bej                  bej                  
benzen               benzen               
benzină              benzin               
bere                 bira                 
beretă               bere                 
beril                beril                
beșamel              beşamel              
beton                beton                
bicarbonat           bikarbonat           
bicicletă            bisiklet             
biciclete            bisiklet             
bideu                bide                 
bifocal              bifokal              
biftec               biftek               
bigudiu              bigudi               
bikini               bikini               
biletă               bilet                
biliard              bilardo              
bio                  biyo                 
biografie            biyografi            
biologie             biyoloji             
biopsie              biyopsi              
birocrație           bürokrasi            
biscuit              bisküvi              
bisexual             biseksüel            
bisexuat             biseksüel            
bismut               bizmut               
bistrou              bistro               
bit                  bit                  
bitum                bitüm                
bituma               bitüm                
bitumen              bitüm                
bizon                bizon                
bluf                 blöf                 
bluză                bluz                 
bluza                bluz                 
bobină               bobin                
bobina               bobin                
boem                 bohem                
bolero               bolero               
bolerou              bolero               
bomb                 bomba                
bombă                bomba                
bombardament         bombardıman          
bonus                bonus                
bor                  bor                  
borax                boraks               
botanic              botanik              
botanică             botanik              
brandy               brendi               
briantină            briyantin            
briefing             brifing              
brocart              brokar               
brom                 brom                 
bronhi               bronş                
bronhie              bronş                
brontozaur           brontosaurus         
bronz                bronz                
broșă                broş                 
broșură              broşür               
brut                 brüt                 
buchet               buket                
budincă              puding               
bufet                büfe                 
buget                bütçe                
buldozer             buldozer             
buletin              bülten               
bumerang             bumerang             
bungalou             bungalov             
bungalov             bungalov             
burghezi             burjuva              
burjui               burjuva              
bust                 büst                 
bustier              büstiyer             
butan                bütan                
butic                butik                
butică               butik                
cabaret              kabare               
cabină               kabin                
cablă                kablo                
cablu                kablo                
cabotaj              kabotaj              
cacao                kakao                
cacofonie            kakofoni             
cactus               kaktüs               
cadastra             kadastro             
cadastrare           kadastro             
cadastru             kadastro             
cadran               kadran               
cadril               kadril               
caduc                kadük                
cafeină              kafein               
calcit               kalsit               
calciu               kalsiyum             
caleidoscop          kaleydoskop          
calibru              kalibre              
caligrafie           kaligrafi            
caligrafia           kaligrafi            
calitate             kalite               
calori               kalori               
calorie              kalori               
camion               kamyon               
campană              kampanya             
campania             kampanya             
campanie             kampanya             
campioană            şampiyon             
campion              şampiyon             
campus               kampus               
camuflaj             kamuflaj             
camuflare            kamuflaj             
canal                kanal                
cancer               kanser               
cancero              kanserli             
cangrenă             kangren              
cangur               kanguru              
caniș                kaniş                
canoe                kano                 
cantată              kantat               
cantină              kantin               
caolin               kaolin               
capacitate           kapasite             
capitalist           kapitalist           
capitulație          kapitülasyon         
capriciu             kapris               
capsulă              kapsül               
capsulare            kapsül               
capsulat             kapsül               
caracter             karakter             
carambol             karambol             
caravelă             karavela             
carbohidrat          karbonhidrat         
carbon               karbon               
carbonat             karbonat             
carbonata            karbonat             
carbonic             karbonik             
carburator           karbüratör           
cardinal             kardinal             
cardinale            kardinal             
careŭ                kare                 
caricatură           karikatür            
caricaturiza         karikatür            
caricaturizare       karikatür            
carieră              kariyer              
cariere              kariyer              
carnaval             karnaval             
carosare             karoser              
caroten              karoten              
cartel               kartel               
carton               karton               
cartuș               kartuş               
cască                kask                 
cașet                kaşe                 
castă                kast                 
castanetă            kastanyet            
catalepsie           katalepsi            
cataliză             kataliz              
catalizare           kataliz              
catalog              katalog              
cataloga             katalog              
catamaran            katamaran            
cataractă            katarakt             
catatonie            katatoni             
catedrală            katedral             
categorial           kategorik            
categorie            kategori             
catharsis            katarsis             
catod                katot                
catolic              katolik              
cauciuc              kauçuk               
caustic              kostik               
caustică             kostik               
cavaler              şövalye              
cedru                sedir                
cefalhematom         sefal                
celulită             selülit              
celuloid             selüloit             
celuloză             selüloz              
cement               çimento              
cent                 sent                 
centi                sent                 
centrifug            santrifüj            
cenzură              sansür               
cenzurare            sansür               
cenzurat             sansür               
ceramic              seramik              
ceramică             seramik              
certificat           sertifika            
cesiu                sezyum               
cheratină            keratin              
chimono              kimono               
chimonou             kimono               
chinină              kinin                
chintal              kental               
chist                kist                 
chiuretaj            kürtaj               
cianhidric           siyanür              
cianură              siyanür              
cianurare            siyanür              
cianura              siyanür              
cibernetic           sibernetik           
cibernetică          sibernetik           
ciclamă              siklâmen             
ciclon               siklon               
cifru                şifre                
cilindrare           silindir             
cilindru             silindir             
ciment               çimento              
cimpanzeu            şempanze             
cinema               sinema               
cinematograf         sinema               
cinetic              kinetik              
cinetică             kinetik              
circ                 sirk                 
ciroză               siroz                
cistită              sistit               
citric               sitrik               
citrin               sitrin               
civil                sivil                
clan                 klan                 
clarinet             klarnet              
clasic               klasik               
claustrofobie        klostrofobi          
clavir               klavye               
clică                klik                 
climă                iklim                
climat               iklim                
climatizare          klima                
climatoterapie       iklim                
clinic               klinik               
clinică              klinik               
clinker              klinker              
clișeu               klişe                
clitoris             klitoris             
clon                 klon                 
clonă                klon                 
clor                 klor                 
cloroform            kloroform            
cloroforma           kloroform            
club                 kulüp                
coach                koç                  
coafă                kuaför               
coafor               kuaför               
coaliție             koalisyon            
coalițiune           koalisyon            
cobai                kobay                
cobalt               kobalt               
cobră                kobra                
cocaină              kokain               
cocardă              kokart               
cockpit              kokpit               
cocs                 kok                  
cocteil              kokteyl              
cod                  kod                  
codeină              kodein               
codex                kodeks               
cola                 kola                 
colaj                kolaj                
colesterol           kolesterol           
colic                kolik                
colică               kolik                
colier               kolye                
colită               kolit                
coloid               koloit               
colon                kolon                
colonie              koloni               
colostru             kolostrum            
colză                kolza                
comă                 koma                 
combinezon           kombinezon           
coma                 koma                 
comedian             komedyen             
comic                komik                
comisar              komiser              
comision             komisyon             
comitet              komite               
comodor              komodor              
compact              kompakt              
compacta             kompakt              
complicare           komplikasyon         
complot              komplo               
compot               komposto             
compoziție           kompozisyon          
compresor            kompresör            
compunere            kompozisyon          
comună               komün                
comunist             komünist             
con                  koni                 
concentrare          konsantrasyon        
concentrat           konsantre            
concert              konser               
concertat            konser               
condensator          kondansatör          
conductor            kondüktör            
confecție            konfeksiyon          
confecțiune          konfeksiyon          
confederație         konfederasyon        
conferință           konferans            
confort              konfor               
congres              kongre               
conjunctivită        konjonktivit         
conjunctură          konjonktür           
conoid               konik                
consiliu             konsey               
consol               konsol               
consolă              konsol               
consorțiu            konsorsiyum          
consul               konsolos             
container            konteyner            
containeriza         konteyner            
containerizat        konteyner            
contrabas            kontrbas             
contrapunct          kontrpuan            
contrast             kontrast             
contrasta            kontrast             
control              kontrol              
controla             kontrol              
controlare           kontrol              
controlat            kontrol              
conul                koni                 
conus                koni                 
convecție            konveksiyon          
convector            konvektör            
convertibil          konvertibl           
cooperativă          kooperatif           
copie                kopyalamak           
cor                  koro                 
coridor              koridor              
cornee               kornea               
corneie              kornea               
cornet               kornet               
cornetă              kornet               
cornișă              korniş               
corodare             korozyon             
coronar              koroner              
coronară             koroner              
coroziune            korozyon             
corset               korse                
cortex               korteks              
cortico              kortikosteroid       
cortizon             kortizon             
corvetă              korvet               
cosmetic             kozmetik             
cosmografie          kozmografi           
cosmonaut            kozmonot             
cosmopolit           kozmopolit           
cracker              kraker               
crampă               kramp                
crampon              krampon              
crater               krater               
cravată              kravat               
credit               kredi                
cremă                krem                 
creozot              kreozot              
creozota             kreozot              
creozotat            kreozot              
crep                 krep                 
creșă                kreş                 
crichet              kriket               
criptonim            kripton              
cristal              kristal              
criteriu             kriter               
criză                kriz                 
crizantemă           krizantem            
croasant             kruvasan             
crochet              kroket               
crochetă             kroket               
crochiu              kroki                
crom                 krom                 
croma                krom                 
cromatic             kromatik             
cromatică            kromatik             
cromo                krom                 
cromozom             kromozom             
crucișător           kruvazör             
crupier              krupiye              
cuantă               kuantum              
cuantor              kuantum              
cuantum              kuantum              
cuarț                kuvars               
cŭartă               kuvars               
cub                  küp                  
cultură              kültür               
cultural             kültürel             
cumulus              kümülüs              
cupon                kupon                
curara               kürar                
curier               kurye                
cuvetă               küvet                
dactilograf          daktilo              
dactilografă         daktilo              
daltonism            daltonizm            
dame                 dama                 
damigeană            damacana             
dans                 dans                 
dansa                dans                 
dantelă              dantel               
dativ                datif                
deca                 deka                 
decatlon             dekatlon             
decibel              desibel              
declarat             deklare              
decolta              dekolte              
decoltat             dekolte              
decolteu             dekolte              
decor                dekor                
deflație             deflasyon            
deformare            deformasyon          
degenera             dejenere             
degenerare           dejenerasyon         
degenerat            dejenere             
deism                deizm                
deist                deist                
delega               delege               
delegat              delege               
delegată             delege               
demagog              demagog              
demagogă             demagog              
democrat             demokrat             
democrație           demokrasi            
demografie           demografi            
deodorant            deodorant            
deplasare            deplasman            
depou                depo                 
depresiune           depresyon            
deprimare            depresyon            
dermă                derma                
descalificare        diskalifiye          
design               dizayn               
despot               despot               
detalia              detay                
detaliu              detay                
detectiv             dedektif             
detector             detektör             
detergent            deterjan             
determinism          determinizm          
determinist          deterministik        
deuteriu             döteryum             
devize               döviz                
di                   di                   
diabet               diyabet              
diafragmă            diyafram             
diagonal             diyagonal            
diagonală            diyagonal            
dialectic            diyalektik           
dializă              diyaliz              
dialog               diyalog              
dialogare            diyalog              
diatonic             diyatonik            
diatonică            diyatonik            
dicta                dikte                
dictare              dikte                
dictat               dikte                
dictatoare           diktatör             
dictator             diktatör             
dicteu               dikte                
dicțiune             diksiyon             
didactic             didaktik             
diesel               dizel                
dietă                diyet                
diferențial          diferansiyel         
diferențială         diferansiyel         
difterie             difteri              
diftero              difteri              
digital              dijital              
digitală             dijital              
dinam                dinamo               
dinamic              dinamik              
dinamică             dinamik              
dinamită             dinamit              
dinamo               dinamo               
dinar                dinar                
dingo                dingo                
dinozaur             dinozor              
diplomă              diploma              
diplomat             diplomat             
diplomatic           diplomatik           
diplomatică          diplomatik           
dipsoman             dipsoman             
disc                 disk                 
dischetă             disket               
disciplină           disiplin             
disciplinare         disiplin             
disciplinat          disiplinli           
discusiune           disk                 
dislexie             disleksi             
dispensar            dispanser            
distrofie            distrofi             
distrugător          destroyer            
dizenterie           dizanteri            
doctor               doktor               
doctoral             doktora              
doctorat             doktora              
doctrină             doktrin              
dodecafonie          dodekafoni           
dogmă                dogma                
dolar                dolar                
dolmen               dolmen               
dolomită             dolomit              
doping               doping               
dosar                dosya                
doză                 doz                  
dozare               dozaj                
doza                 doz                  
dragon               dragon               
dragonul             dragon               
dramă                drama                
dreadnought          dretnot              
drenaj               drenaj               
drom                 drom                 
ducesă               düşes                
duel                 düello               
duet                 düet                 
dumping              damping              
duplex               dubleks              
duș                  duş                  
duzină               düzine               
ebonită              ebonit               
echimoză             ekimoz               
echinocțiu           ekinoks              
echipă               ekip                 
echipament           ekipman              
eclectic             eklektik             
ecler                ekler                
ecliptic             ekliptik             
ecliptică            ekliptik             
ecologie             ekoloji              
economie             ekonomi              
ecran                ekran                
ecuator              ekvator              
eczemă               egzama               
edem                 ödem                 
edițiune             editör               
editor               editör               
elastic              elastik              
electric             elektrik             
electricitate        elektrik             
electro              elektro              
electrocardiograf    elektrokardiyograf   
electroliză          elektroliz           
electron             elektron             
element              eleman               
elicopter            helikopter           
eliminare            eliminasyon          
elipsă               elips                
elipsoid             elipsoid             
email                emaye                
emailat              emaye                
embargo              ambargo              
emblemă              amblem               
embol                emboli               
embrio               embriyo              
embrion              embriyo              
emfizem              anfizem              
empatie              empati               
emulsie              emülsiyon            
emulsiune            emülsiyon            
emulsiv              emülsiyon            
enciclopedie         ansiklopedi          
endo                 endo                 
endoscop             endoskop             
energie              enerji               
entero               entero               
entomologie          entomoloji           
epi                  epi                  
epic                 epik                 
epică                epik                 
epicriză             epikriz              
epididim             epididim             
epilare              epilasyon            
epilepsie            epilepsi             
episcop              piskopos             
epiteliu             epitelyum            
epolet               apolet               
epsilon              epsilon              
erbicid              herbisit             
erbicida             herbisit             
erecție              ereksiyon            
erg                  erg                  
ergonomie            ergonomi             
eritro               eritro               
ermetic              hermetik             
ermină               ermin                
erodare              erozyon              
erotic               erotik               
erotică              erotik               
erotomanie           erotomani            
eroziune             erozyon              
eșarfă               eşarp                
escortă              eskort               
escortare            eskort               
escorta              eskort               
estetic              estetik              
estetică             estetik              
estro                östrojen             
estrogen             östrojen             
eter                 eter                 
eterat               eter                 
eterogen             heterojen            
etic                 etik                 
etichetă             etiket               
etil                 etil                 
etimo                etimolojik           
etimologie           etimoloji            
etio                 etiyoloji            
etiologie            etiyoloji            
etnic                etnik                
etno                 etnik                
eucalipt             okaliptüs            
euforie              öfori                
euro                 euro                 
eutanasie            ötenazi              
excavator            ekskavatör           
excentric            eksantrik            
exercițiu            egzersiz             
exotic               egzotik              
expres               ekspres              
exprima              ekspres              
ezoteric             ezoterik             
fabricator           fabrikatör           
factor               faktör               
factoring            faktoring            
factură              fatura               
facultate            fakülte              
fan                  fan                  
fanatic              fanatik              
fantastic            fantastik            
fantazie             fantezi              
fantezie             fantezi              
faringită            farenjit             
farmaco              farmakolojik         
farmacologie         farmakoloji          
fasciculă            fasikül              
fascism              faşizm               
fatwa                fetva                
favorit              favori               
fax                  faks                 
fază                 faz                  
federal              federal              
federat              federasyon           
federație            federasyon           
federațiune          federal              
felah                fellah               
fenol                fenol                
fenomen              fenomen              
fermoar              fermuar              
feromon              feromon              
festival             festival             
feston               fisto                
fetiș                fetiş                
feudal               feodal               
fibulă               fibula               
filatelie            filateli             
filigran             filigran             
filigrană            filigran             
filigranare          filigran             
filigranat           filigran             
film                 film                 
filma                film                 
filologie            filoloji             
filozoafă            filozof              
filozof              filozof              
filozofie            felsefe              
filtra               filtre               
filtru               filtre               
fiord                fiyort               
fistulă              fistül               
fizică               fizik                
fizio                fizyo                
flanelă              flanel               
flash                flaş                 
flebită              flebit               
flegmă               balgam               
flirt                flört                
flirta               flört                
fluor                fluor                
fluorescent          floresan             
flută                flüt                 
fobie                fobi                 
folclor              folklor              
foliculă             folikül              
folie                folyo                
fondantă             fondan               
fonem                fonem                
fonetic              fonetik              
fonetică             fonetik              
fono                 fono                 
fonograf             fonograf             
for                  forum                
forceps              forseps              
formalitate          formalite            
formulă              formül               
forum                forum                
fosfat               fosfat               
fosfatare            fosfat               
fosfo                fosfor               
fosfor               fosfor               
fosil                fosil                
fosilă               fosil                
fotbal               futbol               
fotografie           fotoğraf             
foton                foton                
foulard              fular                
foxtrot              fokstrot             
frac                 frak                 
fractal              fraktal              
fragment             fragman              
frână                fren                 
franc                frank                
frecvență            frekans              
frenologie           frenoloji            
frescă               fresk                
frez                 freze                
frezare              freze                
frezat               freze                
frînă                fren                 
friză                friz                 
fructoză             fruktoz              
ful                  ful                  
fulard               fular                
funcție              fonksiyon            
funcțiune            fonksiyon            
furnal               fırın                
futurism             fütürizm             
fuziune              füzyon               
gabardină            gabardin             
gafă                 gaf                  
gaiacol              gayakol              
gală                 gala                 
galaxie              galaksi              
galenă               galen                
galon                galon                
galvanizat           galvanize            
gambit               gambit               
gamet                gamet                
ganglion             ganglion             
gangster             gangster             
garaj                garaj                
garant               garantör             
garantare            garanti              
garantat             garanti              
garanție             garanti              
garnisi              garnitür             
garnisire            garnitür             
garnitură            garnitür             
garnizoană           garnizon             
garson               garson               
gastronomie          gastronomi           
gecko                geko                 
gelatină             jelâtin              
genă                 gen                  
generator            jeneratör            
genetic              genetik              
genetică             genetik              
genital              jenital              
geo                  geo                  
geografie            coğrafya             
geologie             jeoloji              
geometrie            geometri             
geriatru             geriatri             
gest                 jest                 
gestă                jest                 
ghetou               getto                
ghilotină            giyotin              
ghilotinare          giyotin              
ghilotina            giyotin              
gigolo               jigolo               
gimnastic            jimnastik            
gimnastică           jimnastik            
gin                  cin                  
gineco               jinekolojik          
giro                 ciro                 
giroscop             jiroskop             
gladiator            gladyatör            
glaucom              glokom               
glicemie             glikoz               
glicerină            gliserin             
glicogen             glikojen             
glucoză              glikoz               
glucozat             glikoz               
gluten               glüten               
gofră                gofret               
gofret               gofret               
golf                 golf                 
gon                  gon                  
gonadotrop           gonadotropik         
gong                 gong                 
goril                goril                
gorilă               goril                
grafic               grafik               
grafică              grafik               
grafit               grafit               
gram                 gram                 
gramă                gram                 
gramofon             gramofon             
grandi               grandi               
granit               granit               
granul               granül               
granulă              granül               
gravare              gravür               
gravură              gravür               
grepfrut             greyfurt             
gresat               gres                 
grevă                grev                 
greva                grev                 
gri                  gri                  
gripă                grip                 
grotesc              grotesk              
grunge               grunge               
grup                 grup                 
grupă                grup                 
grupare              grup                 
guru                 guru                 
gușă                 guatr                
gută                 gut                  
halogen              halojen              
hamac                hamak                
hamster              hamster              
handbal              hentbol              
handicap             handikap             
haos                 kaos                 
harfă                arp                  
harpă                arp                  
hectar               hektar               
hecto                hekto                
hedonism             hedonizm             
hegemon              hegemonik            
hematologie          hematoloji           
hemo                 hemo                 
hemofilie            hemofili             
hemoglobină          hemoglobin           
henț                 hentbol              
hepatită             hepatit              
hermafrodit          hermafrodit          
hermină              ermin                
herminat             ermin                
heroină              eroin                
hertz                hertz                
heterosexual         heteroseksüel        
hidră                hidra                
hidraulic            hidrolik             
hidraulică           hidrolik             
hidrofor             hidrofor             
hidrogen             hidrojen             
hidrografie          hidrografi           
hieroglifă           hiyeroglif           
hiper                hiper                
hiperactiv           hiperaktif           
hipermetrop          hipermetrop          
hipertensiune        hipertansiyon        
hipertrofia          hipertrofi           
hipertrofiere        hipertrofi           
hipnotizare          hipnoz               
hipnotizat           hipnotize            
hipo                 hipo                 
hipoglicemie         hipoglisemi          
hipotalamus          hipotalamus          
histamină            histamin             
histero              histero              
histo                histo                
histogramă           histogram            
histologie           histoloji            
hobby                hobi                 
hochei               hokey                
hormon               hormon               
hortensie            ortanca              
hotel                otel                 
hovercraft           hovercraft           
humus                humus                
iaht                 yat                  
ibis                 ibis                 
ide                  ide                  
ideal                ideal                
idealism             idealizm             
ideogramă            ideogram             
ideologie            ideoloji             
idilă                idil                 
idol                 idol                 
ierarhie             hiyerarşi            
ierbi                herbisit             
iman                 iman                 
împărat              imparator            
impedanță            empedans             
incest               ensest               
încifra              şifrelemek           
index                indeks               
indice               indeks               
inducere             indüksiyon           
inducție             indüksiyon           
industrial           endüstriyel          
infecție             enfeksiyon           
inflație             enflasyon            
injecție             enjeksiyon           
institut             enstitü              
insulină             ensülin              
integral             integral             
integrală            integral             
integrat             entegre              
intelectual          entellektüel         
interactiv           interaktif           
inventar             envanter             
iod                  iyot                 
ipotecă              ipotek               
ipotecare            ipotek               
ipotenuză            hipotenüs            
ipoteză              hipotez              
iredentă             irredantizm          
iredentism           irredantizm          
iris                 iris                 
ischemie             iskemi               
isteric              isterik              
isterie              histeri              
italic               italik               
izolare              izolasyon            
izomer               izomer               
izomorfism           izomorfizm           
izoterm              izotermal            
izotonie             izotonik             
izotop               izotop               
jaguar               jaguar               
jaluzie              jaluzi               
jambon               jambon               
jantă                jant                 
jargon               jargon               
jartieră             jartiyer             
jeleu                jöle                 
jerseu               jarse                
jet                  jet                  
jocheu               jokey                
jogging              jogging              
joker                joker                
joule                jul                  
jupon                jüpon                
juriu                jüri                 
karibu               karibu               
ketchup              ketçap               
kilo                 kilo                 
kiwi                 kivi                 
koala                koala                
kripton              kripton              
labirint             labirent             
laborator            laboratuvar          
lactic               laktik               
lactoză              laktoz               
laic                 laik                 
lamelă               lamel                
laminație            laminasyon           
lanolină             lanolin              
lantan               lantan               
laparoscopie         laparoskopi          
laringită            larenjit             
larvă                larva                
larvi                larva                
laser                lazer                
latex                lateks               
lavă                 lav                  
lavabo               lavabo               
lavaj                lavaj                
leader               lider                
lecitină             lesitin              
legiune              lejyon               
lemurii              lemur                
leopard              leopar               
leucemie             lösemi               
leucocită            lökosit              
liberal              liberal              
libido               libido               
licean               lise                 
licență              lisans               
liceu                lise                 
lichen               liken                
lichior              likör                
lider                lider                
ligă                 lig                  
ligni                linyit               
lignit               linyit               
lila                 lila                 
limfă                lenf                 
limfocită            lenfosit             
limuzină             limuzin              
linotip              linotip              
liric                lirik                
lirică               lirizm               
litic                litik                
litiu                lityum               
litografie           litografi            
litosferă            litosfer             
litru                litre                
lizol                lizol                
lob                  lop                  
lobby                lobi                 
lobul                lobül                
loch                 log                  
locomotor            lokomotif            
logaritm             logaritma            
logistic             lojistik             
logistică            lojistik             
logo                 logo                 
lord                 lord                 
loțiune              losyon               
lotus                lotus                
lumbago              lumbago              
lumen                lümen                
lupus                lupus                
lux                  lüks                 
macac                makak                
machiaj              makyaj               
machiat              makyaj               
machiere             makyaj               
macho                maço                 
macrameu             makrome              
macro                makro                
macrosocial          makro                
madam                madam                
magmă                mağma                
magnetic             manyetik             
magneto              manyeto              
magnetou             manyeto              
magnezit             manyezit             
maioneză             mayonez              
malahit              malakit              
malț                 malt                 
maltoză              maltoz               
mamut                mamut                
mandarin             mandalina            
mandarină            mandalina            
mandat               manda                
mandril              mandril              
manevră              manevra              
manevrare            manevra              
manevra              manevra              
manganez             manganez             
mango                mango                
maniac               manyak               
manichiură           manikür              
manie                mani                 
manometru            manometre            
manșetă              manşet               
mantisă              mantis               
maraton              maraton              
marchiz              marki                
marchize             marki                
mareșal              mareşal              
marginal             marjinal             
marinat              marine               
marmeladă            marmelat             
marș                 marş                 
marșă                marş                 
masaj                masaj                
masare               masaj                
mascotă              maskot               
masochism            mazoşizm             
mason                mason                
masor                masör                
masturbație          mastürbasyon         
matematică           matematik            
materialism          materyalizm          
matineu              matine               
matri                matris               
matrice              matris               
mătrice              matris               
mausoleu             mozole               
maxi                 maksi                
maxim                maksimum             
maximă               maksimum             
maximum              maksimum             
mazut                mazot                
mecanic              mekanik              
mecanică             mekanik              
meci                 maç                  
media                medya                
meditare             meditasyon           
meditație            meditasyon           
meditațiune          meditasyon           
mega                 mega                 
megafon              megafon              
megaloman            megaloman            
melancolie           melankoli            
melasă               melas                
melodramă            melodram             
meningită            menenjit             
meniu                menü                 
menopauză            menopoz              
mercerizat           merserize            
meridian             meridyen             
meridiană            meridyen             
meritocrație         meritokrasi          
mesaj                mesaj                
metabolă             metabolik            
metabolism           metabolizma          
metafizică           metafizik            
metan                metan                
metastază            metastaz             
meteor               meteor               
meteorologie         meteoroloji          
metil                metil                
metresă              metres               
metri                metre                
metro                metro                
metronom             metronom             
metropolă            metropol             
metrou               metro                
metru                metre                
mezo                 mezo                 
micro                mikro                
microb               mikrop               
microcefal           mikrosefali          
microfon             mikrofon             
micron               mikron               
midi                 midi                 
mignonă              minyon               
migrenă              migren               
mili                 mili                 
miliard              milyar               
miliarde             milyar               
milioane             milyon               
milion               milyon               
militant             militan              
miliție              milis                
mim                  mim                  
mimă                 mim                  
mimoză               mimoza               
mineral              mineral              
mini                 mini                 
miniatură            minyatür             
minibuz              minibüs              
minimizat            minimize             
minion               minyon               
miop                 miyop                
mirt                 mersin               
misionar             misyoner             
misionară            misyoner             
misiune              misyon               
mistic               mistik               
mitocondrie          mitokondri           
mitologie            mitoloji             
mitral               mitral               
mobbing              mobbing              
mobilă               mobilya              
mobilier             mobilya              
mocasin              mokasen              
model                model                
modela               model                
modem                modem                
modern               modern               
modificat            modifiye             
modul                modül                
modulare             modülasyon           
modulat              modüle               
moleculă             molekül              
molibden             molibden             
monadă               monad                
monarhie             monarşi              
monism               monizm               
mono                 mono                 
monoclu              monokl               
monografie           monografi            
monogramă            monogram             
monoic               mono                 
monolog              monolog              
monoton              monoton              
montare              montaj               
moped                moped                
moratoriu            moratoryum           
morenă               moren                
morf                 morf                 
morfină              morfin               
morfo                morfolojik           
morgă                morg                 
moron                moron                
mors                 mors                 
morsă                mors                 
motel                motel                
motivare             motivasyon           
motivat              motive               
motivație            motivasyon           
motocicletă          motosiklet           
motor                motor                
mozaic               mozaik               
mozaica              mozaik               
mozaicare            mozaik               
mozaicat             mozaik               
mus                  mus                  
mutație              mutasyon             
muzeu                müze                 
muzică               müzik                
naftalină            naftalin             
napalm               napâlm               
narcisism            narsizm              
narcoză              narkoz               
navigare             navigasyon           
navigație            navigasyon           
nebuloasă            nebula               
necroză              nekroz               
necrozare            nekroz               
nectar               nektar               
nectari              nektar               
nefrită              nefrit               
negativ              negatif              
negativa             negatif              
nematod              nematod              
neon                 neon                 
nepotizm             nepotizm             
net                  net                  
nete                 net                  
neurastenie          nevrasteni           
neuro                nöro                 
neurologie           nöroloji             
neuron               nöron                
neutra               nötr                 
neutru               nötr                 
nevralgie            nevralji             
nicotină             nikotin              
nihilism             nihilizm             
nihilist             nihilist             
nihilizm             nihilizm             
nișă                 niş                  
nistagmus            nistagmus            
nitrat               nitrat               
nitric               nitrik               
nitro                nitro                
nitroglicerină       nitrogliserin        
nominal              nominal              
nominalism           nominalizm           
normal               normal               
nostalgie            nostalji             
notar                noter                
nucleat              nükleik              
nucleo               nükleotid            
ob                   ob                   
oboi                 obua                 
obsidian             obsidyen             
ocean                okyanus              
octan                oktan                
octavă               oktav                
ocular               oküler               
oficiu               ofis                 
ofis                 ofis                 
ofsaid               ofsayt               
oid                  oid                  
oleic                oleik                
oleină               olein                
oleomargarină        margarin             
oligarhie            oligarşi             
oligo                oligo                
ombudsman            ombudsman            
omega                omega                
omletă               omlet                
omogen               homojen              
omolog               homolog              
oncologie            onkoloji             
onix                 oniks                
onoare               onur                 
onomastic            onomastik            
ontic                ontik                
ontologie            ontoloji             
oocit                oosit                
oolit                oolit                
opac                 opak                 
opacă                opak                 
opal                 opal                 
operă                opera                
operație             operasyon            
operațiune           operasyon            
operatoare           operatör             
operator             operatör             
operetă              operet               
oportunism           oportünizm           
optic                optik                
optică               optik                
optim                optimum              
optimiza             optimize             
optimizare           optimizasyon         
optimizat            optimize             
optimizm             optimize             
oral                 oral                 
orchestră            orkestra             
orchestrare          orkestrasyon         
orgă                 organ                
organ                organ                
organic              organik              
organism             organizma            
organizare           organizasyon         
orgasm               orgazm               
orientare            oryantasyon          
original             orijinal             
ornitologie          ornitoloji           
orto                 orto                 
ortodonție           ortodonti            
ortodontologie       ortodontik           
osteo                osteo                
osteologie           osteoloji            
osteoporoză          osteoporoz           
oval                 oval                 
overlock             overlok              
ovocit               oosit                
ovoid                oval                 
oxid                 oksit                
oxidare              oksidasyon           
oxigen               oksijen              
ozon                 ozon                 
ozonat               ozon                 
pachet               paket                
pact                 pakt                 
padoc                padok                
paladiu              palladyum            
paleo                paleo                
paleolitic           paleolitik           
paleontologie        paleontoloji         
paleozoic            paleozoik            
palindrom            palindrom            
palm                 palmiye              
palmier              palmiye              
palmieri             palmiye              
pancreas             pankreas             
panel                panel                
panică               panik                
panica               panik                
panicat              panik                
panoramă             panorama             
pansament            pansuman             
pansare              pansuman             
pantalon             pantolon             
pantaloni            pantolon             
panteism             panteizm             
panteon              panteon              
panteră              panter               
pantograf            pantograf            
pantomim             pandomim             
pantomimă            pandomim             
papă                 papa                 
papirus              papirüs              
paradox              paradoks             
parafină             parafin              
parafina             parafin              
paragraf             paragraf             
paralaxă             paralaks             
paralelă             paralel              
parametru            parametre            
paranteză            parantez             
paraplegie           parapleji            
parașută             paraşüt              
parașutare           paraşüt              
paratoner            paratoner            
paratrăsnet          paratoner            
parazit              parazit              
parazita             parazit              
parazitare           parazit              
parc                 park                 
parchet              parke                
pardon               pardon               
parfum               parfüm               
paritate             parite               
parlament            parlamento           
parodie              parodi               
parodia              parodi               
parolă               parola               
partid               parti                
partizan             partizan             
pasifloră            pasiflora            
pasiv                pasif                
pastel               pastel               
pasteurizat          pastörize            
pastilă              pastil               
pastișă              pastiş               
pastoral             pastoral             
pastorală            pastoral             
patent               patent               
patentă              patent               
pateu                pate                 
patogen              patojen              
patologie            patoloji             
pătrat               kare                 
patron               patron               
pectină              pektin               
pedală               pedal                
pedi                 pedi                 
pediatrie            pediatri             
pedichiură           pedikür              
pedicur              pedikür              
pedie                pedi                 
pedo                 pedo                 
pelerină             pelerin              
pelican              pelikan              
pelvis               pelvis               
penicil              penisilin            
penis                penis                
penta                penta                
pepsină              pepsin               
performanță          performans           
pergament            parşömen             
pericard             perikard             
periscop             periskop             
peritoneu            periton              
permutare            permutasyon          
permutație           permutasyon          
peroxid              peroksit             
perspectiv           perspektif           
perspectivă          perspektif           
perucă               peruk                
pesimizm             pesimizm             
petrografie          petrografi           
petrologie           petroloji            
petun                petunya              
petunie              petunya              
pi                   pi                   
pian                 piyano               
pigmeŭ               pigme                
pigment              pigment              
pijama               pijama               
pilon                pilon                
pilot                pilot                
pilotare             pilot                
pilota               pilot                
pion                 piyon                
pipetă               pipet                
piramidă             piramit              
piranha              pirana               
pireu                püre                 
pirită               pirit                
pisoar               pisuar               
piston               piston               
piton                piton                
piure                püre                 
pivot                pivot                
pixel                piksel               
placebo              plasebo              
placentă             plasenta             
plajă                plaj                 
plan                 plan                 
plancton             plankton             
planor               planör               
plasm                plazma               
plasmă               plazma               
plastic              plastik              
plastică             plastik              
platină              platin               
platonic             platonik             
platou               plato                
plisare              plise                
plutocrație          plutokrasi           
pneumococ            pnömokok             
pneumopatie          pnömoni              
pneumotorax          pnömotoraks          
podium               podyum               
polarizare           polarizasyon         
polarizat            polarize             
polcă                polka                
polemic              polemik              
polemică             polemik              
polen                polen                
poleni               polen                
policlinică          poliklinik           
polifonie            polifoni             
polimer              polimer              
polip                polip                
polis                polis                
politehnic           politeknik           
politehnică          politeknik           
politici             politika             
poliție              polis                
poliuretan           poliüretan           
polo                 polo                 
pompon               ponpon               
popular              popüler              
populare             popüler              
porfir               porfir               
porno                porno                
porțelan             porselen             
portret              portre               
post                 posta                
poster               poster               
postmodern           postmodern           
potasiu              potasyum             
potențial            potansiyel           
potpourri            potpuri              
poza                 poz                  
poziție              pozisyon             
pozitiv              pozitif              
pragmatic            pragmatik            
pragmatică           pragmatik            
pralină              pralin               
prestigiu            prestij              
prezervativ          prezervatif          
principe             prens                
principesă           prenses              
prinț                prens                
prințesă             prenses              
procedură            prosedür             
profil               profil               
profila              profil               
profilare            profil               
program              program              
proiect              proje                
proiectare           projeksiyon          
proiecție            projeksiyon          
proletar             proleter             
prolog               prolog               
propagandă           propaganda           
prospect             prospektüs           
prostată             prostat              
proteină             protein              
protesta             protesto             
protestare           protesto             
proteză              protez               
proto                proto                
protocol             protokol             
prototip             prototip             
provă                pruva                
psihanaliză          psikanaliz           
psihiatră            psikiyatrist         
psihiatru            psikiyatrist         
psihologie           psikoloji            
psihoză              psikoz               
puding               puding               
punk                 punk                 
puritan              püriten              
rachetă              roket                
radar                radar                
radian               radyan               
radiar               radyal               
radiație             radyasyon            
radiațiune           radyasyon            
radiator             radyatör             
radical              radikal              
radioactiv           radyoaktif           
radiologie           radyoloji            
radioscopie          radyoskopi           
rafie                rafya                
rafinat              rafine               
rafting              rafting              
ralia                ralli                
rampă                rampa                
rap                  rap                  
raport               rapor                
raporta              rapor                
rapsodie             rapsodi              
rapsodiere           rapsodi              
rațional             rasyonel             
reabilitare          rehabilitasyon       
reabilitat           rehabilite           
recepție             resepsiyon           
recif                resif                
recital              resital              
recreare             rekreasyon           
recreație            rekreasyon           
rect                 rektum               
recte                rektör               
recțiune             rektör               
rector               rektör               
rectoscopie          rektoskopi           
rectum               rektum               
referendum           referandum           
referință            referans             
reflex               refleks              
reflexie             refleks              
reformă              reform               
reformare            reformasyon          
regim                rejim                
regulator            regülatör            
releu                röle                 
remorcă              römork               
remorca              römork               
reostat              reosta               
repertoriu           repertuar            
reportaj             röportaj             
restaurant           restoran             
restaurare           restorasyon          
retină               retina               
retuș                rötuş                
retușa               rötuş                
retușare             rötuş                
retușat              rötuş                
retușoare            rötuş                
retușor              rötuş                
reumatism            romatizma            
revizie              revizyon             
revizuit             revize               
revolver             revolver             
rezervă              rezerv               
rezervare            rezervasyon          
rezervoriŭ           rezervuar            
rezonanță            rezonans             
risca                risk                 
robot                robot                
rococo               rokoko               
rol                  rol                  
roman                roman                
romanță              romantizm            
romanțat             romantizm            
romantic             romantik             
roquefort            rokfor               
rosbif               rozbif               
rotație              rotasyon             
rotațiune            rotasyon             
rozetă               rozet                
rubidiu              rubidyum             
ruf                  ruf                  
ruj                  ruj                  
rula                 rulo                 
ruletă               rulet                
rulou                rulo                 
runic                rünik                
rustic               rustik               
rutină               rutin                
sabotaj              sabotaj              
sabotare             sabotaj              
sabota               sabotaj              
sadism               sadizm               
safari               safari               
salamandră           semender             
salicilic            salisilik            
salmon               somon                
salon                salon                
șaman                şaman                
șampanie             şampanya             
șampon               şampuan              
samurai              samuray              
sanatoriu            sanatoryum           
sandală              sandalet             
sandvici             sandviç              
sandviș              sandviç              
șansă                şans                 
șantaj               şantaj               
santină              sintine              
sanviș               sandviç              
șarlatan             şarlatan             
satin                saten                
satinat              saten                
satir                satir                
savană               savan                
saxofon              saksofon             
scandal              skandal              
scenariŭ             senaryo              
schelet              iskelet              
schizoid             şizoid               
sciatică             siyatik              
scleroză             skleroz              
sclerozare           skleroz              
sclerozat            skleroz              
scolastic            skolastik            
scrimă               eskrim               
scrima               eskrim               
secant               sekant               
secantă              sekant               
secretar             sekreter             
secretară            sekreter             
sector               sektör               
sedan                sedan                
seismo               sismik               
seismograf           sismograf            
semantică            semantik             
seminar              seminer              
șemineu              şömine               
semnal               sinyal               
senat                senato               
senatoare            senatör              
senator              senatör              
septic               septik               
septicemie           septisemi            
sequoia              sekoya               
ser                  serum                
seră                 sera                 
șerb                 serf                 
serenadă             serenat              
serial               seri                 
serigrafia           serigrafi            
serotonină           serotonin            
serv                 serf                 
servi                servis               
șevalet              şövale               
sex                  seks                 
sextă                sekstant             
sextant              sekstant             
sexy                 seksi                
sezon                sezon                
sfinx                sfenks               
șic                  şık                  
sicativ              sikatif              
signal               sinyal               
silicat              silikat              
siliciŭ              silikon              
șiling               şilin                
siloz                silo                 
siluetă              siluet               
silueta              siluet               
simbioză             sembiyoz             
simetrie             simetri              
simfonie             senfoni              
simpatie             sempati              
simpozion            sempozyum            
simptom              semptom              
simulare             simülasyon           
simulație            simülasyon           
sinagogă             sinagog              
sinapsă              sinaps               
sincopă              senkop               
sincopare            senkop               
sincretic            senkretik            
sindical             sendika              
sindicat             sendika              
sindrom              sendrom              
sinergie             sinerji              
sinteză              sentez               
sinus                sinüs                
siroco               siroko               
sistem               sistem               
slalom               slalom               
slogan               slogan               
smalț                emaye                
smegmă               smegma               
smoching             smokin               
social               sosyal               
sociologie           sosyoloji            
sofist               sofist               
sofistă              sofist               
solariu              solaryum             
solfegiŭ             solfej               
solist               solist               
solistă              solist               
sonar                sonar                
sonată               sonat                
sondă                sonda                
sondare              sonda                
sonda                sonda                
sonet                sone                 
sote                 sote                 
șovin                şoven                
spasm                spazm                
spastic              spastik              
spatulă              spatula              
spectroscop          spektroskop          
spectru              spektrum             
speculație           spekülasyon          
speculațiune         spekülasyon          
speleologie          speleoloji           
speologie            speleoloji           
sperm                sperm                
spermă               sperm                
spermaceti           ispermeçet           
spermatozoid         sperm                
spicher              spiker               
spiral               spiral               
spirala              spiral               
spoiler              spoiler              
sponsor              sponsor              
sport                spor                 
spray                sprey                
stafilococ           stafilokok           
standard             standart             
star                 star                 
static               statik               
statică              statik               
stație               istasyon             
statistică           istatistik           
stațiune             istasyon             
steauă               star                 
steak                biftek               
stearină             stearin              
steno                steno                
stenografie          steno                
stereo               stereo               
stereoscop           stereoskop           
steril               steril               
sterlină             sterlin              
stil                 stil                 
stilo                stilo                
stoc                 stok                 
stocastic            stokastik            
stocastică           stokastik            
strateg              stratejist           
strategie            strateji             
stratosferă          stratosfer           
strepto              streptokok           
streptococ           streptokok           
stres                stres                
stricnină            striknin             
striptis             striptiz             
studio               stüdyo               
sufleu               sufle                
sulfurat             sülfür               
super                süper                
surf                 sörf                 
surfila              sürfile              
surfilare            sürfile              
surfing              sörf                 
surprinde            sürpriz              
surprindere          sürpriz              
surpriză             sürpriz              
suspendare           süspansiyon          
suspensie            süspansiyon          
tabel                tablo                
tabelă               tablo                
tabletă              tablet               
tabletare            tablet               
tableta              tablet               
tactic               taktik               
tactică              taktik               
tahicardie           taşikardi            
taiga                tayga                
taliu                talyum               
tampon               tampon               
tandem               tandem               
tanin                tanen                
tantal               tantal               
tapiocă              tapyoka              
tapir                tapir                
taroc                tarot                
tarot                tarot                
tartă                tart                 
taxi                 taksi                
taxie                taksi                
teaser               teaser               
teatru               tiyatro              
tectonic             tektonik             
tectonică            tektonik             
tehnic               teknik               
tehnică              teknik               
teism                teizm                
telefon              telefon              
telegraf             telgraf              
telemetra            telemetri            
telemetru            telemetre            
teleologie           teleoloji            
telepatie            telepati             
telescop             teleskop             
telescopa            teleskop             
telescopare          teleskop             
telur                tellür               
temă                 tema                 
tenie                tenya                
tenis                tenis                
tenor                tenor                
teo                  teo                  
teocrație            teokrasi             
teoremă              teorem               
teorie               teori                
tera                 tera                 
terapeut             terapist             
terapeută            terapist             
terasă               teras                
terasa               teras                
termal               termal               
termie               termos               
terminal             terminal             
terminologie         terminoloji          
termită              termit               
teroare              terör                
test                 test                 
testa                test                 
testare              test                 
testosteron          testosteron          
tetanos              tetanos              
tetra                tetra                
tetras               tetra                
textil               tekstil              
textile              tekstil              
teză                 tez                  
themă                tema                 
thesis               tez                  
tic                  tik                  
țigară               sigara               
tinctură             tentür               
tip                  tip                  
tiradă               tirad                
tiran                tiran                
tirană               tiran                
tirbușon             tirbuşon             
tirfon               tirfon               
tiroid               tiroid               
tiroidă              tiroid               
titan                titanyum             
titrare              titrasyon            
toaletă              tuvalet              
toaleta              tuvalet              
toast                tost                 
toleranță            tolerans             
toluen               tolüen               
tomată               domates              
tomo                 tomo                 
ton                  ton                  
tonă                 ton                  
tonic                tonik                
tonică               tonik                
tonus                ton                  
topaz                topaz                
topo                 topo                 
topografie           topografya           
topologie            topoloji             
totalitar            totaliter            
toxic                toksik               
tractor              traktör              
trafic               trafik               
tragedie             trajedi              
tragic               trajik               
trahom               trahom               
trampolin            trampolin            
tramvai              tramvay              
trans                trans                
transă               trans                
transatlantic        transatlantik        
transcriere          transkripsiyon       
transcripție         transkripsiyon       
transfera            transfer             
transferare          transfer             
transit              transit              
transmisie           transmisyon          
transmisiune         transmisyon          
transmitere          transmisyon          
tranzistor           transistor           
tranzit              transit              
tranzita             transit              
tranzitare           transit              
trapez               trapez               
traul                trol                 
traulare             trol                 
traumă               travma               
travertin            traverten            
tren                 tren                 
trenă                tren                 
tribun               tribün               
tricot               triko                
trigonometrie        trigonometri         
trilion              trilyon              
trombon              trombon              
tromboni             trombon              
trompet              trompet              
trompetă             trompet              
tropism              tropizm              
tsunami              tsunami              
tub                  tüp                  
tubă                 tuba                 
tuberculoză          tüberküloz           
tubul                tüp                  
tuf                  tüf                  
tumoare              tümör                
tunel                tünel                
turbă                turba                
turbină              türbin               
turbulență           türbülans            
turcoaz              turkuaz              
turcoază             turkuaz              
turist               turist               
turmalină            turmalin             
turnesol             turnusol             
turneŭ               tur                  
turnichet            turnike              
turnir               turnuva              
tweed                tüvit                
ulcer                ülser                
ulcus                ülser                
ultimatum            ültimatom            
ultra                ultra                
umanist              hümanist             
umflare              enflasyon            
unci                 ons                  
uncie                ons                  
uniform              üniforma             
uniformă             üniforma             
universitate         üniversite           
upercut              aparkat              
upercuta             aparkat              
uree                 üre                  
uremie               üremi                
uretan               üretan               
utopie               ütopya               
uvertură             uvertür              
vacuum               vakum                
vagin                vajina               
vagină               vajina               
vals                 vals                 
valsa                vals                 
valvă                valf                 
vampă                vamp                 
vandalism            vandalizm            
vanilie              vanilya              
varan                varan                
variant              varyant              
variantă             varyant              
variație             varyasyon            
variațiune           varyasyon            
vasal                vasal                
vaselină             vazelin              
vasistas             vasistas             
vaso                 vazo                 
vecto                vektör               
vectoare             vektör               
vector               vektör               
vegetarian           vejetaryen           
ventriloc            vantrilok            
ventrilocă           vantrilok            
vermut               vermut               
versiune             versiyon             
veterinar            veteriner            
veto                 veto                 
viaduct              viyadük              
viconte              vikont               
video                video                
vilă                 villa                
virgulă              virgül               
virtuoz              virtüoz              
virus                virüs                
viscoză              viskoz               
vitamină             vitamin              
vitraliu             vitray               
viză                 vize                 
viziune              vizyon               
vizon                vizon                
vocal                vokal                
vodevil              vodvil               
volei                voleybol             
volt                 volt                 
voltmetru            voltmetre            
vulcan               volkan               
vulvă                vulva                
watt                 vat                  
windsurf             windsurf             
xilofon              ksilofon             
yoga                 yoga                 
yuppie               yuppie               
zebră                zebra                
zigot                zigot                
zircon               zirkon               
zodiac               zodyak               
zombi                zombi                
